



1997 Chairman's Letter



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
1997 Chairman's Letter 




To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.: 


       Our gain in net worth during 1997
was $8.0 billion, which increased the per-share book value of both our
Class A and Class B stock by 34.1%. Over the last 33 years (that is, since
present management took over) per-share book value has grown from $19 to
$25,488, a rate of 24.1% compounded annually.(1)

                                  

      1.  All figures used in this report apply to Berkshire's A shares,
          the successor to the only stock that the company had outstanding
          before 1996.  The B shares have an economic interest equal to 1/30th
          that of the A.
                                  



       Given our gain of 34.1%, it is
tempting to declare victory and move on. But last year's performance was
no great triumph: Any investor can chalk up large returns when stocks
soar, as they did in 1997. In a bull market, one must avoid the error of
the preening duck that quacks boastfully after a torrential rainstorm,
thinking that its paddling skills have caused it to rise in the world.
A right-thinking duck would instead compare its position after the downpour
to that of the other ducks on the pond. 
       So what's our duck rating for 1997?
The table on the facing page shows that though we paddled furiously last
year, passive ducks that simply invested in the S&P Index rose almost
as fast as we did. Our appraisal of 1997's performance, then: Quack.

       When the market booms, we tend
to suffer in comparison with the S&P Index. The Index bears no tax
costs, nor do mutual funds, since they pass through all tax liabilities
to their owners. Last year, on the other hand, Berkshire paid or accrued
$4.2 billion for federal income tax, or about 18% of our beginning net
worth. 
       Berkshire will always have corporate
taxes to pay, which means it needs to overcome their drag in order to justify
its existence. Obviously, Charlie Munger, Berkshire's Vice Chairman and
my partner, and I won't be able to lick that handicap every year. But we
expect over time to maintain a modest advantage over the Index, and that
is the yardstick against which you should measure us. We will not ask you
to adopt the philosophy of the Chicago Cubs fan who reacted to a string
of lackluster seasons by saying, "Why get upset? Everyone has a bad
century now and then." 
       Gains in book value are, of course,
not the bottom line at Berkshire. What truly counts are gains in per-share
intrinsic business value. Ordinarily, though, the two measures tend to
move roughly in tandem, and in 1997 that was the case: Led by a blow-out
performance at GEICO, Berkshire's intrinsic value (which far exceeds book
value) grew at nearly the same pace as book value. 
       For more explanation of the term,
intrinsic value, you may wish to refer to our Owner's Manual, reprinted
on pages 62 to 71. This manual sets forth our owner-related business principles,
information that is important to all of Berkshire's shareholders. 
       In our last two annual reports,
we furnished you a table that Charlie and I believe is central to estimating
Berkshire's intrinsic value. In the updated version of that table, which
follows, we trace our two key components of value. The first column lists
our per-share ownership of investments (including cash and equivalents)
and the second column shows our per-share earnings from Berkshire's operating
businesses before taxes and purchase-accounting adjustments (discussed
on pages 69 and 70), but after all interest and corporate expenses. The
second column excludes all dividends, interest and capital gains that we
realized from the investments presented in the first column. In effect,
the columns show what Berkshire would look like were it split into two
parts, with one entity holding our investments and the other operating
all of our businesses and bearing all corporate costs. 
                                           Pre-tax Earnings Per Share
                      Investments          Excluding All Income from
       Year             Per Share                   Investments        

       1967             $    41                      $  1.09
       1977                 372                        12.44    
       1987               3,910                       108.14    
       1997              38,043                       717.82    




       Pundits who ignore what our 38,000
employees contribute to the company, and instead simply view Berkshire
as a de facto investment company, should study the figures in the second
column. We made our first business acquisition in 1967, and since then
our pre-tax operating earnings have grown from $1 million to $888 million.
Furthermore, as noted, in this exercise we have assigned all of Berkshire's
corporate expenses -- overhead of $6.6 million, interest of $66.9 million
and shareholder contributions of $15.4 million -- to our business operations,
even though a portion of these could just as well have been assigned to
the investment side. 
       Here are the growth rates of the
two segments by decade: 
                                               Pre-tax Earnings Per Share
                          Investments          Excluding All Income from
  Decade Ending            Per Share                  Investments        

      1977                   24.6%                       27.6%
      1987                   26.5%                       24.1%
      1997                   25.5%                       20.8%
 Annual Growth
  Rate, 1967-1997            25.6%                       24.2%




       During 1997, both parts of our
business grew at a satisfactory rate, with investments increasing by $9,543
per share, or 33.5%, and operating earnings growing by $296.43 per share,
or 70.3%. One important caveat: Because we were lucky in our super-cat
insurance business (to be discussed later) and because GEICO's underwriting
gain was well above what we can expect in most years, our 1997 operating
earnings were much better than we anticipated and also more than we expect
for 1998. 
       Our rate of progress in both investments
and operations is certain to fall in the future. For anyone deploying
capital, nothing recedes like success. My own history makes the point:
Back in 1951, when I was attending Ben Graham's class at Columbia, an idea
giving me a $10,000 gain improved my investment performance for the year
by a full 100 percentage points. Today, an idea producing a $500 million
pre-tax profit for Berkshire adds one percentage point to our performance.
It's no wonder that my annual results in the 1950s were better by nearly
thirty percentage points than my annual gains in any subsequent decade.
Charlie's experience was similar. We weren't smarter then, just smaller.
At our present size, any performance superiority we achieve will be minor.

       We will be helped, however, by
the fact that the businesses to which we have already allocated capital
-- both operating subsidiaries and companies in which we are passive investors
-- have splendid long-term prospects. We are also blessed with a managerial
corps that is unsurpassed in ability and focus. Most of these executives
are wealthy and do not need the pay they receive from Berkshire to maintain
their way of life. They are motivated by the joy of accomplishment, not
by fame or fortune. 
       Though we are delighted with what
we own, we are not pleased with our prospects for committing incoming funds.
Prices are high for both businesses and stocks. That does not mean that
the prices of either will fall -- we have absolutely no view on that matter
-- but it does mean that we get relatively little in prospective earnings
when we commit fresh money. 


       Under these circumstances, we try
to exert a Ted Williams kind of discipline. In his book The Science
of Hitting, Ted explains that he carved the strike zone into 77 cells,
each the size of a baseball. Swinging only at balls in his "best"
cell, he knew, would allow him to bat .400; reaching for balls in his "worst"
spot, the low outside corner of the strike zone, would reduce him to .230.
In other words, waiting for the fat pitch would mean a trip to the Hall
of Fame; swinging indiscriminately would mean a ticket to the minors. 
       If they are in the strike zone
at all, the business "pitches" we now see are just catching the
lower outside corner. If we swing, we will be locked into low returns.
But if we let all of today's balls go by, there can be no assurance that
the next ones we see will be more to our liking. Perhaps the attractive
prices of the past were the aberrations, not the full prices of today.
Unlike Ted, we can't be called out if we resist three pitches that are
barely in the strike zone; nevertheless, just standing there, day after
day, with my bat on my shoulder is not my idea of fun. 


Unconventional Commitments 


       When we can't find our favorite
commitment -- a well-run and sensibly-priced business with fine economics
-- we usually opt to put new money into very short-term instruments of
the highest quality. Sometimes, however, we venture elsewhere. Obviously
we believe that the alternative commitments we make are more likely to
result in profit than loss. But we also realize that they do not offer
the certainty of profit that exists in a wonderful business secured at
an attractive price. Finding that kind of opportunity, we know that
we are going to make money -- the only question being when. With alternative
investments, we think that we are going to make money. But we also
recognize that we will sometimes realize losses, occasionally of substantial
size. 
       We had three non-traditional positions
at yearend. The first was derivative contracts for 14.0 million barrels
of oil, that being what was then left of a 45.7 million barrel position
we established in 1994-95. Contracts for 31.7 million barrels were settled
in 1995-97, and these supplied us with a pre-tax gain of about $61.9 million.
Our remaining contracts expire during 1998 and 1999. In these, we had an
unrealized gain of $11.6 million at yearend. Accounting rules require that
commodity positions be carried at market value. Therefore, both our annual
and quarterly financial statements reflect any unrealized gain or loss
in these contracts. When we established our contracts, oil for future delivery
seemed modestly underpriced. Today, though, we have no opinion as to its
attractiveness. 
       Our second non-traditional commitment
is in silver. Last year, we purchased 111.2 million ounces. Marked to market,
that position produced a pre-tax gain of $97.4 million for us in 1997.
In a way, this is a return to the past for me: Thirty years ago, I bought
silver because I anticipated its demonetization by the U.S. Government.
Ever since, I have followed the metal's fundamentals but not owned it.
In recent years, bullion inventories have fallen materially, and last summer
Charlie and I concluded that a higher price would be needed to establish
equilibrium between supply and demand. Inflation expectations, it should
be noted, play no part in our calculation of silver's value. 
       Finally, our largest non-traditional
position at yearend was $4.6 billion, at amortized cost, of long-term zero-coupon
obligations of the U.S. Treasury. These securities pay no interest. Instead,
they provide their holders a return by way of the discount at which they
are purchased, a characteristic that makes their market prices move rapidly
when interest rates change. If rates rise, you lose heavily with zeros,
and if rates fall, you make outsized gains. Since rates fell in 1997, we
ended the year with an unrealized pre-tax gain of $598.8 million in our
zeros. Because we carry the securities at market value, that gain is reflected
in yearend book value. 
       In purchasing zeros, rather than
staying with cash-equivalents, we risk looking very foolish: A macro-based
commitment such as this never has anything close to a 100% probability
of being successful. However, you pay Charlie and me to use our best judgment
-- not to avoid embarrassment -- and we will occasionally make an unconventional
move when we believe the odds favor it. Try to think kindly of us when
we blow one. Along with President Clinton, we will be feeling your pain:
The Munger family has more than 90% of its net worth in Berkshire and the
Buffetts more than 99%. 


How We Think About Market Fluctuations 


       A short quiz: If you plan to eat
hamburgers throughout your life and are not a cattle producer, should you
wish for higher or lower prices for beef? Likewise, if you are going to
buy a car from time to time but are not an auto manufacturer, should you
prefer higher or lower car prices? These questions, of course, answer themselves.

       But now for the final exam: If
you expect to be a net saver during the next five years, should you hope
for a higher or lower stock market during that period? Many investors get
this one wrong. Even though they are going to be net buyers of stocks for
many years to come, they are elated when stock prices rise and depressed
when they fall. In effect, they rejoice because prices have risen for the
"hamburgers" they will soon be buying. This reaction makes no
sense. Only those who will be sellers of equities in the near future should
be happy at seeing stocks rise. Prospective purchasers should much prefer
sinking prices. 
       For shareholders of Berkshire who
do not expect to sell, the choice is even clearer. To begin with, our owners
are automatically saving even if they spend every dime they personally
earn: Berkshire "saves" for them by retaining all earnings, thereafter
using these savings to purchase businesses and securities. Clearly, the
more cheaply we make these buys, the more profitable our owners' indirect
savings program will be. 
       Furthermore, through Berkshire
you own major positions in companies that consistently repurchase their
shares. The benefits that these programs supply us grow as prices fall:
When stock prices are low, the funds that an investee spends on repurchases
increase our ownership of that company by a greater amount than is the
case when prices are higher. For example, the repurchases that Coca-Cola,
The Washington Post and Wells Fargo made in past years at very low prices
benefitted Berkshire far more than do today's repurchases, made at loftier
prices. 
       At the end of every year, about
97% of Berkshire's shares are held by the same investors who owned them
at the start of the year. That makes them savers. They should therefore
rejoice when markets decline and allow both us and our investees to deploy
funds more advantageously. 
       So smile when you read a headline
that says "Investors lose as market falls." Edit it in your mind
to "Disinvestors lose as market falls -- but investors gain."
Though writers often forget this truism, there is a buyer for every seller
and what hurts one necessarily helps the other. (As they say in golf matches:
"Every putt makes someone happy.") 
       We gained enormously from the low
prices placed on many equities and businesses in the 1970s and 1980s. Markets
that then were hostile to investment transients were friendly to those
taking up permanent residence. In recent years, the actions we took in
those decades have been validated, but we have found few new opportunities.
In its role as a corporate "saver," Berkshire continually looks
for ways to sensibly deploy capital, but it may be some time before we
find opportunities that get us truly excited. 


Insurance Operations -- Overview 


       What does excite us, however, is
our insurance business. GEICO is flying, and we expect that it will continue
to do so. Before we expound on that, though, let's discuss "float"
and how to measure its cost. Unless you understand this subject, it will
be impossible for you to make an informed judgment about Berkshire's intrinsic
value. 
       To begin with, float is money we
hold but don't own. In an insurance operation, float arises because premiums
are received before losses are paid, an interval that sometimes extends
over many years. During that time, the insurer invests the money. Typically,
this pleasant activity carries with it a downside: The premiums that an
insurer takes in usually do not cover the losses and expenses it eventually
must pay. That leaves it running an "underwriting loss," which
is the cost of float. An insurance business has value if its cost of float
over time is less than the cost the company would otherwise incur to obtain
funds. But the business is a lemon if its cost of float is higher than
market rates for money. 


       A caution is appropriate here:
Because loss costs must be estimated, insurers have enormous latitude in
figuring their underwriting results, and that makes it very difficult for
investors to calculate a company's true cost of float. Estimating errors,
usually innocent but sometimes not, can be huge. The consequences of these
miscalculations flow directly into earnings. An experienced observer can
usually detect large-scale errors in reserving, but the general public
can typically do no more than accept what's presented, and at times I have
been amazed by the numbers that big-name auditors have implicitly blessed.
As for Berkshire, Charlie and I attempt to be conservative in presenting
its underwriting results to you, because we have found that virtually all
surprises in insurance are unpleasant ones. 
       As the numbers in the following
table show, Berkshire's insurance business has been a huge winner. For
the table, we have calculated our float -- which we generate in large amounts
relative to our premium volume -- by adding net loss reserves, loss adjustment
reserves, funds held under reinsurance assumed and unearned premium reserves,
and then subtracting agents' balances, prepaid acquisition costs, prepaid
taxes and deferred charges applicable to assumed reinsurance. Our cost
of float is determined by our underwriting loss or profit. In those years
when we have had an underwriting profit, such as the last five, our cost
of float has been negative. In effect, we have been paid for holding money.



              (1)            (2)                           Yearend Yield
         Underwriting                      Approximate      on Long-Term
             Loss        Average Float    Cost of Funds     Govt. Bonds 
                (In $ Millions)         (Ratio of 1 to 2)



1967         profit          17.3         less than zero        5.50%
1968         profit          19.9         less than zero        5.90%
1969         profit          23.4         less than zero        6.79%
1970          0.37           32.4                  1.14%        6.25%
1971         profit          52.5         less than zero        5.81%
1972         profit          69.5         less than zero        5.82%
1973         profit          73.3         less than zero        7.27%
1974          7.36           79.1                  9.30%        8.13%
1975         11.35           87.6                 12.96%        8.03%
1976         profit         102.6         less than zero        7.30%
1977         profit         139.0         less than zero        7.97%
1978         profit         190.4         less than zero        8.93%
1979         profit         227.3         less than zero       10.08%
1980         profit         237.0         less than zero       11.94%
1981         profit         228.4         less than zero       13.61%
1982         21.56          220.6                  9.77%       10.64%
1983         33.87          231.3                 14.64%       11.84%
1984         48.06          253.2                 18.98%       11.58%
1985         44.23          390.2                 11.34%        9.34%
1986         55.84          797.5                  7.00%        7.60%
1987         55.43        1,266.7                  4.38%        8.95%
1988         11.08        1,497.7                  0.74%        9.00%
1989         24.40        1,541.3                  1.58%        7.97%
1990         26.65        1,637.3                  1.63%        8.24%
1991        119.59        1,895.0                  6.31%        7.40%
1992        108.96        2,290.4                  4.76%        7.39%
1993         profit       2,624.7         less than zero        6.35%
1994         profit       3,056.6         less than zero        7.88%
1995         profit       3,607.2         less than zero        5.95%
1996         profit       6,702.0         less than zero        6.64%
1997         profit       7,093.1         less than zero        5.92%




       Since 1967, when we entered the
insurance business, our float has grown at an annual compounded rate of
21.7%. Better yet, it has cost us nothing, and in fact has made us money.
Therein lies an accounting irony: Though our float is shown on our balance
sheet as a liability, it has had a value to Berkshire greater than an equal
amount of net worth would have had. 
       The expiration of several large
contracts will cause our float to decline during the first quarter of 1998,
but we expect it to grow substantially over the long term. We also believe
that our cost of float will continue to be highly favorable. 


Super-Cat Insurance 


       Occasionally, however, the cost
of our float will spike severely. That will occur because of our heavy
involvement in the super-cat business, which by its nature is the most
volatile of all insurance lines. In this operation, we sell policies that
insurance and reinsurance companies purchase in order to limit their losses
when mega-catastrophes strike. Berkshire is the preferred market for sophisticated
buyers: When the "big one" hits, the financial strength of super-cat
writers will be tested, and Berkshire has no peer in this respect. 
       Since truly major catastrophes
are rare occurrences, our super-cat business can be expected to show large
profits in most years -- and to record a huge loss occasionally. In other
words, the attractiveness of our super-cat business will take a great many
years to measure. What you must understand, however, is that a truly
terrible year in the super-cat business is not a possibility -- it's a
certainty. The only question is when it will come. 
       Last year, we were very lucky in
our super-cat operation. The world suffered no catastrophes that caused
huge amounts of insured damage, so virtually all premiums that we received
dropped to the bottom line. This pleasant result has a dark side, however.
Many investors who are "innocents" -- meaning that they rely
on representations of salespeople rather than on underwriting knowledge
of their own -- have come into the reinsurance business by means of purchasing
pieces of paper that are called "catastrophe bonds." The second
word in this term, though, is an Orwellian misnomer: A true bond obliges
the issuer to pay; these bonds, in effect, are contracts that lay a provisional
promise to pay on the purchaser. 
       This convoluted arrangement came
into being because the promoters of the contracts wished to circumvent
laws that prohibit the writing of insurance by entities that haven't been
licensed by the state. A side benefit for the promoters is that calling
the insurance contract a "bond" may also cause unsophisticated
buyers to assume that these instruments involve far less risk than is actually
the case. 
       Truly outsized risks will exist
in these contracts if they are not properly priced. A pernicious aspect
of catastrophe insurance, however, makes it likely that mispricing, even
of a severe variety, will not be discovered for a very long time. Consider,
for example, the odds of throwing a 12 with a pair of dice -- 1 out of
36. Now assume that the dice will be thrown once a year; that you, the
"bond-buyer," agree to pay $50 million if a 12 appears; and that
for "insuring" this risk you take in an annual "premium"
of $1 million. That would mean you had significantly underpriced the risk.
Nevertheless, you could go along for years thinking you were making money
-- indeed, easy money. There is actually a 75.4% probability that you would
go for a decade without paying out a dime. Eventually, however, you would
go broke. 
       In this dice example, the odds
are easy to figure. Calculations involving monster hurricanes and earthquakes
are necessarily much fuzzier, and the best we can do at Berkshire is to
estimate a range of probabilities for such events. The lack of precise
data, coupled with the rarity of such catastrophes, plays into the hands
of promoters, who typically employ an "expert" to advise the
potential bond-buyer about the probability of losses. The expert puts no
money on the table. Instead, he receives an up-front payment that is forever
his no matter how inaccurate his predictions. Surprise: When the stakes
are high, an expert can invariably be found who will affirm -- to return
to our example -- that the chance of rolling a 12 is not 1 in 36, but more
like 1 in 100. (In fairness, we should add that the expert will probably
believe that his odds are correct, a fact that makes him less reprehensible
-- but more dangerous.) 
       The influx of "investor"
money into catastrophe bonds -- which may well live up to their name --
has caused super-cat prices to deteriorate materially. Therefore, we will
write less business in 1998. We have some large multi-year contracts in
force, however, that will mitigate the drop. The largest of these are two
policies that we described in last year's report -- one covering hurricanes
in Florida and the other, signed with the California Earthquake Authority,
covering earthquakes in that state. Our "worst-case" loss remains
about $600 million after-tax, the maximum we could lose under the CEA policy.
Though this loss potential may sound large, it is only about 1% of Berkshire's
market value. Indeed, if we could get appropriate prices, we would be willing
to significantly increase our "worst-case" exposure. 
       Our super-cat business was developed
from scratch by Ajit Jain, who has contributed to Berkshire's success in
a variety of other ways as well. Ajit possesses both the discipline to
walk away from business that is inadequately priced and the imagination
to then find other opportunities. Quite simply, he is one of Berkshire's
major assets. Ajit would have been a star in whatever career he chose;
fortunately for us, he enjoys insurance. 


Insurance -- GEICO (1-800-555-2756) and Other Primary Operations



       Last year I wrote about GEICO's
Tony Nicely and his terrific management skills. If I had known then what
he had in store for us in 1997, I would have searched for still greater
superlatives. Tony, now 54, has been with GEICO for 36 years and last year
was his best. As CEO, he has transmitted vision, energy and enthusiasm
to all members of the GEICO family -- raising their sights from what has
been achieved to what can be achieved. 
       We measure GEICO's performance
by first, the net increase in its voluntary auto policies (that is, not
including policies assigned us by the state) and, second, the profitability
of "seasoned" auto business, meaning policies that have been
with us for more than a year and are thus past the period in which acquisition
costs cause them to be money-losers. In 1996, in-force business grew 10%,
and I told you how pleased I was, since that rate was well above anything
we had seen in two decades. Then, in 1997, growth jumped to 16%. 
       Below are the new business and
in-force figures for the last five years: 


                      New Voluntary      Voluntary Auto
      Years           Auto Policies    Policies in Force

       1993              354,882           2,011,055    
       1994              396,217           2,147,549
       1995              461,608           2,310,037
       1996              617,669           2,543,699
       1997              913,176           2,949,439

       Of course, any insurer can grow
rapidly if it gets careless about underwriting. GEICO's underwriting profit
for the year, though, was 8.1% of premiums, far above its average. Indeed,
that percentage was higher than we wish it to be: Our goal is to pass on
most of the benefits of our low-cost operation to our customers, holding
ourselves to about 4% in underwriting profit. With that in mind, we reduced
our average rates a bit during 1997 and may well cut them again this year.
Our rate changes varied, of course, depending on the policyholder and where
he lives; we strive to charge a rate that properly reflects the loss expectancy
of each driver. 
       GEICO is not the only auto insurer
obtaining favorable results these days. Last year, the industry recorded
profits that were far better than it anticipated or can sustain. Intensified
competition will soon squeeze margins very significantly. But this is a
development we welcome: Long term, a tough market helps the low-cost operator,
which is what we are and intend to remain. 
       Last year I told you about the
record 16.9% profit-sharing contribution that GEICO's associates had earned
and explained that two simple variables set the amount: policy growth and
profitability of seasoned business. I further explained that 1996's performance
was so extraordinary that we had to enlarge the chart delineating the possible
payouts. The new configuration didn't make it through 1997: We enlarged
the chart's boundaries again and awarded our 10,500 associates a profit-sharing
contribution amounting to 26.9% of their base compensation, or $71 million.
In addition, the same two variables -- policy growth and profitability
of seasoned business -- determined the cash bonuses that we paid to dozens
of top executives, starting with Tony. 


       At GEICO, we are paying in a way
that makes sense for both our owners and our managers. We distribute merit
badges, not lottery tickets: In none of Berkshire's subsidiaries do we
relate compensation to our stock price, which our associates cannot affect
in any meaningful way. Instead, we tie bonuses to each unit's business
performance, which is the direct product of the unit's people. When that
performance is terrific -- as it has been at GEICO -- there is nothing
Charlie and I enjoy more than writing a big check. 
       GEICO's underwriting profitability
will probably fall in 1998, but the company's growth could accelerate.
We're planning to step on the gas: GEICO's marketing expenditures this
year will top $100 million, up 50% from 1997. Our market share today is
only 3%, a level of penetration that should increase dramatically in the
next decade. The auto insurance industry is huge -- it does about $115
billion of volume annually -- and there are tens of millions of drivers
who would save substantial money by switching to us. 
* * * * * * * * * * * * 
       In the 1995 report, I described
the enormous debt that you and I owe to Lorimer Davidson. On a Saturday
early in 1951, he patiently explained the ins and outs of both GEICO and
its industry to me -- a 20-year-old stranger who'd arrived at GEICO's headquarters
uninvited and unannounced. Davy later became the company's CEO and has
remained my friend and teacher for 47 years. The huge rewards that GEICO
has heaped on Berkshire would not have materialized had it not been for
his generosity and wisdom. Indeed, had I not met Davy, I might never have
grown to understand the whole field of insurance, which over the years
has played such a key part in Berkshire's success. 
       Davy turned 95 last year, and it's
difficult for him to travel. Nevertheless, Tony and I hope that we can
persuade him to attend our annual meeting, so that our shareholders can
properly thank him for his important contributions to Berkshire. Wish us
luck. 
* * * * * * * * * * * * 
       Though they are, of course, far
smaller than GEICO, our other primary insurance operations turned in results
last year that, in aggregate, were fully as stunning. National Indemnity's
traditional business had an underwriting profit of 32.9% and, as usual,
developed a large amount of float compared to premium volume. Over the
last three years, this segment of our business, run by Don Wurster, has
had a profit of 24.3%. Our homestate operation, managed by Rod Eldred,
recorded an underwriting profit of 14.1% even though it continued to absorb
the expenses of geographical expansion. Rod's three-year record is an amazing
15.1%. Berkshire's workers' compensation business, run out of California
by Brad Kinstler, had a modest underwriting loss in a difficult environment;
its three-year underwriting record is a positive 1.5%. John Kizer, at Central
States Indemnity, set a new volume record while generating good underwriting
earnings. At Kansas Bankers Surety, Don Towle more than lived up to the
high expectations we had when we purchased the company in 1996. 
       In aggregate, these five operations
recorded an underwriting profit of 15.0%. The two Dons, along with Rod,
Brad and John, have created significant value for Berkshire, and we believe
there is more to come. 


Sources of Reported Earnings 


       The table that follows shows the
main sources of Berkshire's reported earnings. In this presentation, purchase-accounting
adjustments are not assigned to the specific businesses to which they apply,
but are instead aggregated and shown separately. This procedure lets you
view the earnings of our businesses as they would have been reported had
we not purchased them. For the reasons discussed on pages 69 and 70, this
form of presentation seems to us to be more useful to investors and managers
than one utilizing generally-accepted accounting principles (GAAP), which
require purchase-premiums to be charged off business-by-business. The total
earnings we show in the table are, of course, identical to the GAAP total
in our audited financial statements. 
                                                         (in millions)              
                                                                  Berkshire's Share  
                                                                   of Net Earnings  
                                                                  (after taxes and  
                                             Pre-Tax Earnings    minority interests)
                                              1997      1996       1997      1996    
Operating Earnings:
  Insurance Group:
    Underwriting -- Super-Cat. . . . . . . .$  283.0  $  167.0   $  182.7  $  107.4
    Underwriting -- Other Reinsurance. . . .  (155.2)   (174.8)    (100.1)   (112.4)
    Underwriting -- GEICO. . . . . . . . . .   280.7     171.4      181.1     110.2
    Underwriting -- Other Primary. . . . . .    52.9      58.5       34.1      37.6
    Net Investment Income. . . . . . . . . .   882.3     726.2      703.6     593.1
  Buffalo News . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    55.9      50.4       32.7      29.5
  Finance Businesses . . . . . . . . . . . .    28.1      23.1       18.0      14.9
  FlightSafety . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   139.5       3.1(1)    84.4       1.9(1)
  Home Furnishings . . . . . . . . . . . . .    56.8(2)   43.8       32.2(2)   24.8
  Jewelry. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31.6      27.8       18.3      16.1
  Scott Fetzer(excluding finance operation).   118.9     121.7       77.3      81.6
  See's Candies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    58.6      51.9       35.0      30.8
  Shoe Group . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    48.8      61.6       32.2      41.0
  Purchase-Accounting Adjustments. . . . . .  (104.9)    (75.7)     (97.0)    (70.5)
  Interest Expense(3). . . . . . . . . . . .  (106.6)    (94.3)     (67.1)    (56.6)
  Shareholder-Designated Contributions . . .   (15.4)    (13.3)      (9.9)     (8.5)
  Other. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    60.7      73.0       37.0      42.2
                                            --------  --------   --------  -------- 
Operating Earnings . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,715.7   1,221.4    1,194.5     883.1 
Capital Gains from Investments . . . . . . . 1,111.9   2,484.5      707.1   1,605.5
                                            --------  --------   --------  --------
Total Earnings - All Entities. . . . . . . .$2,827.6  $3,705.9   $1,901.6  $2,488.6
                                            ========  ========   ========  ========

      (1) From date of acquisition,
December 23, 1996.
      (2) Includes Star
Furniture from July 1, 1997.
      (3) Excludes interest
expense of Finance Businesses.



       Overall, our operating businesses
continue to perform exceptionally well, far outdoing their industry norms.
We are particularly pleased that profits improved at Helzberg's after a
disappointing 1996. Jeff Comment, Helzberg's CEO, took decisive steps early
in 1997 that enabled the company to gain real momentum by the crucial Christmas
season. In the early part of this year, as well, sales remained strong.

       Casual observers may not appreciate
just how extraordinary the performance of many of our businesses has been:
If the earnings history of, say, Buffalo News or Scott Fetzer is compared
to the records of their publicly-owned peers, their performance might seem
to have been unexceptional. But most public companies retain two-thirds
or more of their earnings to fund their corporate growth. In contrast,
those Berkshire subsidiaries have paid 100% of their earnings to us, their
parent company, to fund our growth. 
       In effect, the records of the public
companies reflect the cumulative benefits of the earnings they have retained,
while the records of our operating subsidiaries get no such boost. Over
time, however, the earnings these subsidiaries have distributed have created
truly huge amounts of earning power elsewhere in Berkshire. The News, See's
and Scott Fetzer have alone paid us $1.8 billion, which we have gainfully
employed elsewhere. We owe their managements our gratitude for much more
than the earnings that are detailed in the table. 


       Additional information about our
various businesses is given on pages 36 - 50, where you will also find
our segment earnings reported on a GAAP basis. In addition, on pages 55
- 61, we have rearranged Berkshire's financial data into four segments
on a non-GAAP basis, a presentation that corresponds to the way Charlie
and I think about the company. Our intent is to supply you with the financial
information that we would wish you to give us if our positions were reversed.



Look-Through Earnings 


       Reported earnings are a poor measure
of economic progress at Berkshire, in part because the numbers shown in
the table presented earlier include only the dividends we receive from
investees -- though these dividends typically represent only a small fraction
of the earnings attributable to our ownership. Not that we mind this division
of money, since on balance we regard the undistributed earnings of investees
as more valuable to us than the portion paid out. The reason is simple:
Our investees often have the opportunity to reinvest earnings at high rates
of return. So why should we want them paid out? 
       To depict something closer to economic
reality at Berkshire than reported earnings, though, we employ the concept
of "look-through" earnings. As we calculate these, they consist
of: (1) the operating earnings reported in the previous section, plus;
(2) our share of the retained operating earnings of major investees that,
under GAAP accounting, are not reflected in our profits, less; (3) an allowance
for the tax that would be paid by Berkshire if these retained earnings
of investees had instead been distributed to us. When tabulating "operating
earnings" here, we exclude purchase-accounting adjustments as well
as capital gains and other major non-recurring items. 
       The following table sets forth
our 1997 look-through earnings, though I warn you that the figures can
be no more than approximate, since they are based on a number of judgment
calls. (The dividends paid to us by these investees have been included
in the operating earnings itemized on page 11, mostly under "Insurance
Group: Net Investment Income.") 


                                                          Berkshire's Share
                                                          of Undistributed
                              Berkshire's Approximate     Operating Earnings 
Berkshire's Major Investees   Ownership at Yearend(1)      (in millions)(2)  

American Express Company              10.7%                      $161
The Coca-Cola Company                  8.1%                       216
The Walt Disney Company                3.2%                        65
Freddie Mac                            8.6%                        86
The Gillette Company                   8.6%                        82
The Washington Post Company           16.5%                        30
Wells Fargo & Company                  7.8%                       103
                                                               ------
Berkshire's share of undistributed earnings of major investees    743 
Hypothetical tax on these undistributed investee earnings(3)     (105)
Reported operating earnings of Berkshire                        1,292
                                                               ------
     Total look-through earnings of Berkshire                  $1,930 
                                                               ======



      (1) Does not include shares allocable to minority interests
      (2) Calculated on average ownership for the year
      (3) The tax rate used is 14%, which is the rate Berkshire
               pays on the dividends it receives

Acquisitions of 1997 


       In 1997, we agreed to acquire Star
Furniture and International Dairy Queen (a deal that closed early in 1998).
Both businesses fully meet our criteria: They are understandable; possess
excellent economics; and are run by outstanding people. 
       The Star transaction has an interesting
history. Whenever we buy into an industry whose leading participants aren't
known to me, I always ask our new partners, "Are there any more at
home like you?" Upon our purchase of Nebraska Furniture Mart in 1983,
therefore, the Blumkin family told me about three outstanding furniture
retailers in other parts of the country. At the time, however, none was
for sale. 
       Many years later, Irv Blumkin learned
that Bill Child, CEO of R.C. Willey -- one of the recommended three --
might be interested in merging, and we promptly made the deal described
in the 1995 report. We have been delighted with that association -- Bill
is the perfect partner. Furthermore, when we asked Bill about industry
standouts, he came up with the remaining two names given me by the Blumkins,
one of these being Star Furniture of Houston. But time went by without
there being any indication that either of the two was available. 
       On the Thursday before last year's
annual meeting, however, Bob Denham of Salomon told me that Melvyn Wolff,
the long-time controlling shareholder and CEO of Star, wanted to talk.
At our invitation, Melvyn came to the meeting and spent his time in Omaha
confirming his positive feelings about Berkshire. I, meanwhile, looked
at Star's financials, and liked what I saw. 
       A few days later, Melvyn and I
met in New York and made a deal in a single, two-hour session. As was the
case with the Blumkins and Bill Child, I had no need to check leases, work
out employment contracts, etc. I knew I was dealing with a man of integrity
and that's what counted. 
       Though the Wolff family's association
with Star dates back to 1924, the business struggled until Melvyn and his
sister Shirley Toomin took over in 1962. Today Star operates 12 stores
-- ten in Houston and one each in Austin and Bryan -- and will soon move
into San Antonio as well. We won't be surprised if Star is many times its
present size a decade from now. 
       Here's a story illustrating what
Melvyn and Shirley are like: When they told their associates of the sale,
they also announced that Star would make large, special payments to those
who had helped them succeed -- and then defined that group as everyone
in the business. Under the terms of our deal, it was Melvyn and Shirley's
money, not ours, that funded this distribution. Charlie and I love it when
we become partners with people who behave like that. 
       The Star transaction closed on
July 1. In the months since, we've watched Star's already-excellent sales
and earnings growth accelerate further. Melvyn and Shirley will be at the
annual meeting, and I hope you get a chance to meet them. 
       Next acquisition: International
Dairy Queen. There are 5,792 Dairy Queen stores operating in 23 countries
-- all but a handful run by franchisees -- and in addition IDQ franchises
409 Orange Julius operations and 43 Karmelkorn operations. In 190 locations,
"treat centers" provide some combination of the three products.

       For many years IDQ had a bumpy
history. Then, in 1970, a Minneapolis group led by John Mooty and Rudy
Luther took control. The new managers inherited a jumble of different franchising
agreements, along with some unwise financing arrangements that had left
the company in a precarious condition. In the years that followed, management
rationalized the operation, extended food service to many more locations,
and, in general, built a strong organization. 
       Last summer Mr. Luther died, which
meant his estate needed to sell stock. A year earlier, Dick Kiphart of
William Blair & Co., had introduced me to John Mooty and Mike Sullivan,
IDQ's CEO, and I had been impressed with both men. So, when we got the
chance to merge with IDQ, we offered a proposition patterned on our FlightSafety
acquisition, extending selling shareholders the option of choosing either
cash or Berkshire shares having a slightly lower immediate value. By tilting
the consideration as we did, we encouraged holders to opt for cash, the
type of payment we by far prefer. Even then, only 45% of IDQ shares elected
cash. 
       Charlie and I bring a modicum of
product expertise to this transaction: He has been patronizing the Dairy
Queens in Cass Lake and Bemidji, Minnesota, for decades, and I have been
a regular in Omaha. We have put our money where our mouth is. 


A Confession 


       I've mentioned that we strongly
prefer to use cash rather than Berkshire stock in acquisitions. A study
of the record will tell you why: If you aggregate all of our stock-only
mergers (excluding those we did with two affiliated companies, Diversified
Retailing and Blue Chip Stamps), you will find that our shareholders are
slightly worse off than they would have been had I not done the transactions.
Though it hurts me to say it, when I've issued stock, I've cost you money.

       Be clear about one thing: This
cost has not occurred because we were misled in any way by sellers
or because they thereafter failed to manage with diligence and skill. On
the contrary, the sellers were completely candid when we were negotiating
our deals and have been energetic and effective ever since. 
       Instead, our problem has been that
we own a truly marvelous collection of businesses, which means that trading
away a portion of them for something new almost never makes sense. When
we issue shares in a merger, we reduce your ownership in all of our businesses
-- partly-owned companies such as Coca-Cola, Gillette and American Express,
and all of our terrific operating companies as well. An example from sports
will illustrate the difficulty we face: For a baseball team, acquiring
a player who can be expected to bat .350 is almost always a wonderful event
-- except when the team must trade a .380 hitter to make the deal.

       Because our roster is filled with
.380 hitters, we have tried to pay cash for acquisitions, and here our
record has been far better. Starting with National Indemnity in 1967, and
continuing with, among others, See's, Buffalo News, Scott Fetzer and GEICO,
we have acquired -- for cash -- a number of large businesses that have
performed incredibly well since we bought them. These acquisitions have
delivered Berkshire tremendous value -- indeed, far more than I anticipated
when we made our purchases. 
       We believe that it is almost impossible
for us to "trade up" from our present businesses and managements.
Our situation is the opposite of Camelot's Mordred, of whom Guenevere commented,
"The one thing I can say for him is that he is bound to marry well.
Everybody is above him." Marrying well is extremely difficult for
Berkshire. 
       So you can be sure that Charlie
and I will be very reluctant to issue shares in the future. In those cases
when we simply must do so -- when certain shareholders of a desirable acquiree
insist on getting stock -- we will include an attractive cash option in
order to tempt as many of the sellers to take cash as is possible. 
       Merging with public companies presents
a special problem for us. If we are to offer any premium to the
acquiree, one of two conditions must be present: Either our own stock must
be overvalued relative to the acquiree's, or the two companies together
must be expected to earn more than they would if operated separately. Historically,
Berkshire has seldom been overvalued. In this market, moreover, undervalued
acquirees are almost impossible to find. That other possibility -- synergy
gains -- is usually unrealistic, since we expect acquirees to operate after
we've bought them just as they did before. Joining with Berkshire does
not normally raise their revenues nor cut their costs. 


       Indeed, their reported costs (but
not their true ones) will rise after they are bought by Berkshire
if the acquiree has been granting options as part of its compensation packages.
In these cases, "earnings" of the acquiree have been overstated
because they have followed the standard -- but, in our view, dead wrong
-- accounting practice of ignoring the cost to a business of issuing options.
When Berkshire acquires an option-issuing company, we promptly substitute
a cash compensation plan having an economic value equivalent to that of
the previous option plan. The acquiree's true compensation cost is thereby
brought out of the closet and charged, as it should be, against earnings.

       The reasoning that Berkshire applies
to the merger of public companies should be the calculus for all
buyers. Paying a takeover premium does not make sense for any acquirer
unless a) its stock is overvalued relative to the acquiree's or b) the
two enterprises will earn more combined than they would separately. Predictably,
acquirers normally hew to the second argument because very few are willing
to acknowledge that their stock is overvalued. However, voracious buyers
-- the ones that issue shares as fast as they can print them -- are tacitly
conceding that point. (Often, also, they are running Wall Street's version
of a chain-letter scheme.) 
       In some mergers there truly are
major synergies -- though oftentimes the acquirer pays too much to obtain
them -- but at other times the cost and revenue benefits that are projected
prove illusory. Of one thing, however, be certain: If a CEO is enthused
about a particularly foolish acquisition, both his internal staff and his
outside advisors will come up with whatever projections are needed to justify
his stance. Only in fairy tales are emperors told that they are naked.



Common Stock Investments 


       Below we present our common stock
investments. Those with a market value of more than $750 million are itemized.

                                                   12/31/97

        Shares  Company                      Cost*      Market   
                                             (dollars in millions)

    49,456,900  American Express Company     $1,392.7   $  4,414.0
   200,000,000  The Coca-Cola Company         1,298.9     13,337.5
    21,563,414  The Walt Disney Company         381.2      2,134.8
    63,977,600  Freddie Mac                     329.4      2,683.1
    48,000,000  The Gillette Company            600.0      4,821.0
    23,733,198  Travelers Group Inc.            604.4      1,278.6
     1,727,765  The Washington Post Company      10.6        840.6
     6,690,218  Wells Fargo & Company           412.6      2,270.9
                Others                        2,177.1      4,467.2
                                             --------   ----------
                Total Common Stocks          $7,206.9   $ 36,247.7
                                             ========   ==========



            *
Represents tax-basis cost which, in aggregate, is $1.8 billion less than
GAAP cost. 


       We made net sales during the year
that amounted to about 5% of our beginning portfolio. In these, we significantly
reduced a few of our holdings that are below the $750 million threshold
for itemization, and we also modestly trimmed a few of the larger positions
that we detail. Some of the sales we made during 1997 were aimed at changing
our bond-stock ratio moderately in response to the relative values that
we saw in each market, a realignment we have continued in 1998. 
       Our reported positions, we should
add, sometimes reflect the investment decisions of GEICO's Lou Simpson.
Lou independently runs an equity portfolio of nearly $2 billion that may
at times overlap the portfolio that I manage, and occasionally he makes
moves that differ from mine. 
       Though we don't attempt to predict
the movements of the stock market, we do try, in a very rough way, to value
it. At the annual meeting last year, with the Dow at 7,071 and long-term
Treasury yields at 6.89%, Charlie and I stated that we did not consider
the market overvalued if 1) interest rates remained where they were
or fell, and 2) American business continued to earn the remarkable returns
on equity that it had recently recorded. So far, interest rates have fallen
-- that's one requisite satisfied -- and returns on equity still remain
exceptionally high. If they stay there -- and if interest rates hold near
recent levels -- there is no reason to think of stocks as generally overvalued.
On the other hand, returns on equity are not a sure thing to remain at,
or even near, their present levels. 
       In the summer of 1979, when equities
looked cheap to me, I wrote a Forbes article entitled "You
pay a very high price in the stock market for a cheery consensus."
At that time skepticism and disappointment prevailed, and my point was
that investors should be glad of the fact, since pessimism drives down
prices to truly attractive levels. Now, however, we have a very cheery
consensus. That does not necessarily mean this is the wrong time to buy
stocks: Corporate America is now earning far more money than it was just
a few years ago, and in the presence of lower interest rates, every dollar
of earnings becomes more valuable. Today's price levels, though, have materially
eroded the "margin of safety" that Ben Graham identified as the
cornerstone of intelligent investing. 
* * * * * * * * * * * * 
       In last year's annual report, I
discussed Coca-Cola, our largest holding. Coke continues to increase its
market dominance throughout the world, but, tragically, it has lost the
leader responsible for its outstanding performance. Roberto Goizueta, Coke's
CEO since 1981, died in October. After his death, I read every one of the
more than 100 letters and notes he had written me during the past nine
years. Those messages could well serve as a guidebook for success in both
business and life. 
       In these communications, Roberto
displayed a brilliant and clear strategic vision that was always aimed
at advancing the well-being of Coke shareholders. Roberto knew where he
was leading the company, how he was going to get there, and why this path
made the most sense for his owners -- and, equally important, he had a
burning sense of urgency about reaching his goals. An excerpt from one
handwritten note he sent to me illustrates his mind-set: "By the way,
I have told Olguita that what she refers to as an obsession, you call focus.
I like your term much better." Like all who knew Roberto, I will miss
him enormously. 
       Consistent with his concern for
the company, Roberto prepared for a seamless succession long before it
seemed necessary. Roberto knew that Doug Ivester was the right man to take
over and worked with Doug over the years to ensure that no momentum would
be lost when the time for change arrived. The Coca-Cola Company will be
the same steamroller under Doug as it was under Roberto. 


Convertible Preferreds 


       Two years ago, I gave you an update
on the five convertible preferreds that we purchased through private placements
in the 1987-1991 period. At the time of that earlier report, we had realized
a small profit on the sale of our Champion International holding. The four
remaining preferred commitments included two, Gillette and First Empire
State, that we had converted into common stock in which we had large unrealized
gains, and two others, USAir and Salomon, that had been trouble-prone.
At times, the last two had me mouthing a line from a country song: "How
can I miss you if you won't go away?" 
       Since I delivered that report,
all four holdings have grown significantly in value. The common stocks
of both Gillette and First Empire have risen substantially, in line with
the companies' excellent performance. At yearend, the $600 million we put
into Gillette in 1989 had appreciated to $4.8 billion, and the $40 million
we committed to First Empire in 1991 had risen to $236 million. 
       Our two laggards, meanwhile, have
come to life in a very major way. In a transaction that finally rewarded
its long-suffering shareholders, Salomon recently merged into Travelers
Group. All of Berkshire's shareholders -- including me, very personally
-- owe a huge debt to Deryck Maughan and Bob Denham for, first, playing
key roles in saving Salomon from extinction following its 1991 scandal
and, second, restoring the vitality of the company to a level that made
it an attractive acquisition for Travelers. I have often said that I wish
to work with executives that I like, trust and admire. No two fit that
description better than Deryck and Bob. 


       Berkshire's final results from
its Salomon investment won't be tallied for some time, but it is safe to
say that they will be far better than I anticipated two years ago. Looking
back, I think of my Salomon experience as having been both fascinating
and instructional, though for a time in 1991-92 I felt like the drama critic
who wrote: "I would have enjoyed the play except that I had an unfortunate
seat. It faced the stage." 
       The resuscitation of US Airways
borders on the miraculous. Those who have watched my moves in this investment
know that I have compiled a record that is unblemished by success. I was
wrong in originally purchasing the stock, and I was wrong later, in repeatedly
trying to unload our holdings at 50 cents on the dollar. 
       Two changes at the company coincided
with its remarkable rebound: 1) Charlie and I left the board of directors
and 2) Stephen Wolf became CEO. Fortunately for our egos, the second event
was the key: Stephen Wolf's accomplishments at the airline have been phenomenal.

       There still is much to do at US
Airways, but survival is no longer an issue. Consequently, the company
made up the dividend arrearages on our preferred during 1997, adding extra
payments to compensate us for the delay we suffered. The company's common
stock, furthermore, has risen from a low of $4 to a recent high of $73.

       Our preferred has been called for
redemption on March 15. But the rise in the company's stock has given our
conversion rights, which we thought worthless not long ago, great value.
It is now almost certain that our US Airways shares will produce a decent
profit -- that is, if my cost for Maalox is excluded -- and the gain could
even prove indecent. 
       Next time I make a big, dumb decision,
Berkshire shareholders will know what to do: Phone Mr. Wolf. 
* * * * * * * * * * * * 
       In addition to the convertible
preferreds, we purchased one other private placement in 1991, $300 million
of American Express Percs. This security was essentially a common stock
that featured a tradeoff in its first three years: We received extra dividend
payments during that period, but we were also capped in the price appreciation
we could realize. Despite the cap, this holding has proved extraordinarily
profitable thanks to a move by your Chairman that combined luck and skill
-- 110% luck, the balance skill. 
       Our Percs were due to convert into
common stock in August 1994, and in the month before I was mulling whether
to sell upon conversion. One reason to hold was Amex's outstanding CEO,
Harvey Golub, who seemed likely to maximize whatever potential the company
had (a supposition that has since been proved -- in spades). But the size
of that potential was in question: Amex faced relentless competition from
a multitude of card-issuers, led by Visa. Weighing the arguments, I leaned
toward sale. 
       Here's where I got lucky. During
that month of decision, I played golf at Prouts Neck, Maine with Frank
Olson, CEO of Hertz. Frank is a brilliant manager, with intimate knowledge
of the card business. So from the first tee on I was quizzing him about
the industry. By the time we reached the second green, Frank had convinced
me that Amex's corporate card was a terrific franchise, and I had decided
not to sell. On the back nine I turned buyer, and in a few months Berkshire
owned 10% of the company. 
       We now have a $3 billion gain in
our Amex shares, and I naturally feel very grateful to Frank. But George
Gillespie, our mutual friend, says that I am confused about where my gratitude
should go. After all, he points out, it was he who arranged the game and
assigned me to Frank's foursome. 
Quarterly Reports to Shareholders 
       In last year's letter, I described
the growing costs we incur in mailing quarterly reports and the problems
we have encountered in delivering them to "street-name" shareholders.
I asked for your opinion about the desirability of our continuing to print
reports, given that we now publish our quarterly and annual communications
on the Internet, at our site, www.berkshirehathaway.com. Relatively few
shareholders responded, but it is clear that at least a small number who
want the quarterly information have no interest in getting it off the Internet.
Being a life-long sufferer from technophobia, I can empathize with this
group. 
       The cost of publishing quarterlies,
however, continues to balloon, and we have therefore decided to send printed
versions only to shareholders who request them. If you wish the quarterlies,
please complete the reply card that is bound into this report. In the meantime,
be assured that all shareholders will continue to receive the annual
report in printed form. 
       Those of you who enjoy the computer
should check out our home page. It contains a large amount of current information
about Berkshire and also all of our annual letters since 1977. In addition,
our website includes links to the home pages of many Berkshire subsidiaries.
On these sites you can learn more about our subsidiaries' products and
-- yes -- even place orders for them. 
       We are required to file our quarterly
information with the SEC no later than 45 days after the end of each quarter.
One of our goals in posting communications on the Internet is to make this
material information -- in full detail and in a form unfiltered by the
media -- simultaneously available to all interested parties at a time when
markets are closed. Accordingly, we plan to send our 1998 quarterly information
to the SEC on three Fridays, May 15, August 14, and November 13, and on
those nights to post the same information on the Internet. This procedure
will put all of our shareholders, whether they be direct or "street-name,"
on an equal footing. Similarly, we will post our 1998 annual report on
the Internet on Saturday, March 13, 1999, and mail it at about the same
time. 


Shareholder-Designated Contributions 


       About 97.7% of all eligible shares
participated in Berkshire's 1997 shareholder-designated contributions program.
Contributions made were $15.4 million, and 3,830 charities were recipients.
A full description of the program appears on pages 52 - 53. 
       Cumulatively, over the 17 years
of the program, Berkshire has made contributions of $113.1 million pursuant
to the instructions of our shareholders. The rest of Berkshire's giving
is done by our subsidiaries, which stick to the philanthropic patterns
that prevailed before they were acquired (except that their former owners
themselves take on the responsibility for their personal charities). In
aggregate, our subsidiaries made contributions of $8.1 million in 1997,
including in-kind donations of $4.4 million. 
       Every year a few shareholders miss
out on our contributions program because they don't have their shares registered
in their own names on the prescribed record date or because they fail to
get the designation form back to us within the 60-day period allowed. Charlie
and I regret this. But if replies are received late, we have to reject
them because we can't make exceptions for some shareholders while refusing
to make them for others. 
       To participate in future programs,
you must own Class A shares that are registered in the name of the actual
owner, not the nominee name of a broker, bank or depository. Shares not
so registered on August 31, 1998, will be ineligible for the 1998 program.
When you get the contributions form from us, return it promptly so that
it does not get put aside or forgotten. 
The Annual Meeting 


       Woodstock Weekend at Berkshire
will be May 2-4 this year. The finale will be the annual meeting, which
will begin at 9:30 a.m. on Monday, May 4. Last year we met at Aksarben
Coliseum, and both our staff and the crowd were delighted with the venue.
There was only one crisis: The night before the meeting, I lost my voice,
thereby fulfilling Charlie's wildest fantasy. He was crushed when I showed
up the next morning with my speech restored. 
       Last year about 7,500 attended
the meeting. They represented all 50 states, as well as 16 countries, including
Australia, Brazil, Israel, Saudi Arabia, Singapore and Greece. Taking into
account several overflow rooms, we believe that we can handle more than
11,000 people, and that should put us in good shape this year even though
our shareholder count has risen significantly. Parking is ample at Aksarben;
acoustics are excellent; and seats are comfortable. 
       The doors will open at 7 a.m. on
Monday and at 8:30 we will again feature the world premiere of a movie
epic produced by Marc Hamburg, our CFO. The meeting will last until 3:30,
with a short break at noon. This interval will permit the exhausted to
leave unnoticed and allow time for the hardcore to lunch at Aksarben's
concession stands. Charlie and I enjoy questions from owners, so bring
up whatever is on your mind. 
       Berkshire products will again be
for sale in the halls outside the meeting room. Last year -- not
that I pay attention to this sort of thing -- we again set sales records,
moving 2,500 pounds of See's candy, 1,350 pairs of Dexter shoes, $75,000
of World Books and related publications, and 888 sets of Quikut knives.
We also took orders for a new line of apparel, featuring our Berkshire
logo, and sold about 1,000 polo, sweat, and T-shirts. At this year's meeting,
we will unveil our 1998 collection. 
       GEICO will again be on hand with
a booth staffed by star associates from its regional offices. Find out
whether you can save money by shifting your auto insurance to GEICO. About
40% of those who check us out learn that savings are possible. The proportion
is not 100% because insurers differ in their underwriting judgments, with
some favoring drivers who live in certain geographical areas and work at
certain occupations more than we do. We believe, however, that we more
frequently offer the low price than does any other national carrier selling
insurance to all comers. In the GEICO informational material that accompanies
this report, you will see that in 38 states we now offer a special discount
of as much as 8% to our shareholders. We also have applications pending
that would extend this discount to drivers in other states. 
       An attachment to the proxy material
that is enclosed with this report explains how you can obtain the card
you will need for admission to the meeting. We expect a large crowd, so
get plane, hotel and car reservations promptly. American Express (800-799-6634)
will be happy to help you with arrangements. As usual, we will have buses
at the larger hotels that will take you to and from the meeting and also
deliver you to Nebraska Furniture Mart, Borsheim's and the airport after
its conclusion. You are likely, however, to find a car handy. 
       NFM's main store, located on a
75-acre site about a mile from Aksarben, is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.
on weekdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturdays, and noon to 6 p.m. on Sundays.
During the period from May 1 to May 5, shareholders who present NFM with
the coupon that will accompany their meeting ticket will be entitled to
a discount that is otherwise restricted to its employees. 
       Borsheim's normally is closed on
Sunday but will be open for shareholders from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on May
3rd. Last year was our second-best shareholder's day, exceeded only by
1996's. I regard this slippage as an anomaly and hope that you will prove
me right this year. Charlie will be available for autographs. He smiles,
however, only if the paper he signs is a Borsheim's sales ticket. Shareholders
who wish to visit on Saturday (10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.) or on Monday (10 a.m.-8
p.m.) should be sure to identify themselves as Berkshire owners so that
Susan Jacques, Borsheim's CEO, can make you especially welcome. Susan,
I should add, had a fabulous year in 1997. As a manager, she is everything
that an owner hopes for. 
       On Sunday afternoon we will also
have a special treat for bridge players in the mall outside of Borsheim's.
There, Bob Hamman -- a legend of the game for more than three decades --
will take on all comers. Join in and dazzle Bob with your skill. 
       My favorite steakhouse, Gorat's,
opens one Sunday a year -- for Berkshire shareholders on the night before
the annual meeting. Last year the restaurant started serving at 4 p.m.
and finished about 1:30 a.m, an endurance trial that was the result of
taking 1,100 reservations vs. a seating capacity of 235. If you make a
reservation and then can't attend, be sure to let Gorat's know promptly,
since it goes to great effort to help us and we want to reciprocate. You
can make reservations beginning on April 1st (but not before) by
calling 402-551-3733. Last year I had to leave Gorat's a little early because
of my voice problem, but this year I plan to leisurely savor every bite
of my rare T-bone and double order of hash browns. 
       After this warmup, Charlie and
I will head for the Dairy Queen on 114th, just south of Dodge. There are
12 great Dairy Queens in metropolitan Omaha, but the 114th Street location
is the best suited to handle the large crowd that we expect. South of the
property, there are hundreds of parking spaces on both sides of the street.
Also, this Dairy Queen will extend its Sunday hours to 11 p.m. in order
to accommodate our shareholders. 
       The 114th Street operation is now
run by two sisters, Coni Birge and Deb Novotny, whose grandfather put up
the building in 1962 at what was then the outer edge of the city. Their
mother, Jan Noble, took over in 1972, and Coni and Deb continue as third
generation owner-managers. Jan, Coni and Deb will all be on hand Sunday
evening, and I hope that you meet them. Enjoy one of their hamburgers if
you can't get into Gorat's. And then, around eight o'clock, join me in
having a Dusty Sundae for dessert. This item is a personal specialty --
the Dairy Queen will furnish you a copy of my recipe -- and will be offered
only on Shareholder Sunday. 
       The Omaha Royals and Albuquerque
Dukes will play baseball on Saturday evening, May 2nd, at Rosenblatt Stadium.
As usual, your Chairman, shamelessly exploiting his 25% ownership of the
team, will take the mound. But this year you will see something new. 
       In past games, much to the bafflement
of the crowd, I have shaken off the catcher's first call. He has consistently
asked for my sweeping curve, and I have just as regularly resisted. Instead,
I have served up a pathetic fast ball, which on my best day was clocked
at eight miles per hour (with a following wind). 
       There's a story behind my unwillingness
to throw the curve ball. As some of you may know, Candy Cummings invented
the curve in 1867 and used it to great effect in the National Association,
where he never won less than 28 games in a season. The pitch, however,
drew immediate criticism from the very highest of authorities, namely Charles
Elliott, then president of Harvard University, who declared, "I have
heard that this year we at Harvard won the baseball championship because
we have a pitcher who has a fine curve ball. I am further instructed that
the purpose of the curve ball is to deliberately deceive the batter. Harvard
is not in the business of teaching deception." (I'm not making this
up.) 
       Ever since I learned of President
Elliott's moral teachings on this subject, I have scrupulously refrained
from using my curve, however devastating its effect might have been on
hapless batters. Now, however, it is time for my karma to run over Elliott's
dogma and for me to quit holding back. Visit the park on Saturday night
and marvel at the majestic arc of my breaking ball. 
       Our proxy statement includes information
about obtaining tickets to the game. We will also provide an information
packet describing the local hot spots, including, of course, those 12 Dairy
Queens. 
       Come to Omaha -- the cradle of
capitalism -- in May and enjoy yourself. 






                                                Warren E. Buffett
February 27, 1998                               Chairman of the Board  










Chairman's Letter - 1977



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.


To the Stockholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:

     Operating earnings in 1977 of $21,904,000, or $22.54 per 
share, were moderately better than anticipated a year ago.  Of 
these earnings, $1.43 per share resulted from substantial 
realized capital gains by Blue Chip Stamps which, to the extent 
of our proportional interest in that company, are included in our 
operating earnings figure.  Capital gains or losses realized 
directly by Berkshire Hathaway Inc. or its insurance subsidiaries 
are not included in our calculation of operating earnings.  While 
too much attention should not be paid to the figure for any 
single year, over the longer term the record regarding aggregate 
capital gains or losses obviously is of significance.

     Textile operations came in well below forecast, while the 
results of the Illinois National Bank as well as the operating 
earnings attributable to our equity interest in Blue Chip Stamps 
were about as anticipated.  However, insurance operations, led 
again by the truly outstanding results of Phil Liesche’s 
managerial group at National Indemnity Company, were even better 
than our optimistic expectations.

     Most companies define “record” earnings as a new high in 
earnings per share.  Since businesses customarily add from year 
to year to their equity base, we find nothing particularly 
noteworthy in a management performance combining, say, a 10% 
increase in equity capital and a 5% increase in earnings per 
share.  After all, even a totally dormant savings account will 
produce steadily rising interest earnings each year because of 
compounding.

     Except for special cases (for example, companies with 
unusual debt-equity ratios or those with important assets carried 
at unrealistic balance sheet values), we believe a more 
appropriate measure of managerial economic performance to be 
return on equity capital.  In 1977 our operating earnings on 
beginning equity capital amounted to 19%, slightly better than 
last year and above both our own long-term average and that of 
American industry in aggregate.  But, while our operating 
earnings per share were up 37% from the year before, our 
beginning capital was up 24%, making the gain in earnings per 
share considerably less impressive than it might appear at first 
glance.

     We expect difficulty in matching our 1977 rate of return 
during the forthcoming year.  Beginning equity capital is up 23% 
from a year ago, and we expect the trend of insurance 
underwriting profit margins to turn down well before the end of 
the year.  Nevertheless, we expect a reasonably good year and our 
present estimate, subject to the usual caveats regarding the 
frailties of forecasts, is that operating earnings will improve 
somewhat on a per share basis during 1978.

Textile Operations

     The textile business again had a very poor year in 1977.  We 
have mistakenly predicted better results in each of the last two 
years.  This may say something about our forecasting abilities, 
the nature of the textile industry, or both.  Despite strenuous 
efforts, problems in marketing and manufacturing have persisted.  
Many difficulties experienced in the marketing area are due 
primarily to industry conditions, but some of the problems have 
been of our own making.

     A few shareholders have questioned the wisdom of remaining 
in the textile business which, over the longer term, is unlikely 
to produce returns on capital comparable to those available in 
many other businesses.  Our reasons are several: (1) Our mills in 
both New Bedford and Manchester are among the largest employers 
in each town, utilizing a labor force of high average age 
possessing relatively non-transferable skills.  Our workers and 
unions have exhibited unusual understanding and effort in 
cooperating with management to achieve a cost structure and 
product mix which might allow us to maintain a viable operation. 
(2) Management also has been energetic and straightforward in its 
approach to our textile problems.  In particular, Ken Chace’s 
efforts after the change in corporate control took place in 1965 
generated capital from the textile division needed to finance the 
acquisition and expansion of our profitable insurance operation.  
(3) With hard work and some imagination regarding manufacturing 
and marketing configurations, it seems reasonable that at least 
modest profits in the textile division can be achieved in the 
future.

Insurance Underwriting

     Our insurance operation continued to grow significantly in 
1977.  It was early in 1967 that we made our entry into this 
industry through the purchase of National Indemnity Company and 
National Fire and Marine Insurance Company (sister companies) for 
approximately $8.6 million.  In that year their premium volume 
amounted to $22 million.  In 1977 our aggregate insurance premium 
volume was $151 million.  No additional shares of Berkshire 
Hathaway stock have been issued to achieve any of this growth.

     Rather, this almost 600% increase has been achieved through 
large gains in National Indemnity’s traditional liability areas 
plus the starting of new companies (Cornhusker Casualty Company 
in 1970, Lakeland Fire and Casualty Company in 1971, Texas United 
Insurance Company in 1972, The Insurance Company of Iowa in 1973, 
and Kansas Fire and Casualty Company in late 1977), the purchase 
for cash of other insurance companies (Home and Automobile 
Insurance Company in 1971, Kerkling Reinsurance Corporation, now 
named Central Fire and Casualty Company, in 1976, and Cypress 
Insurance Company at yearend 1977), and finally through the 
marketing of additional products, most significantly reinsurance, 
within the National Indemnity Company corporate structure.

     In aggregate, the insurance business has worked out very 
well.  But it hasn’t been a one-way street.  Some major mistakes 
have been made during the decade, both in products and personnel.  
We experienced significant problems from (1) a surety operation 
initiated in 1969, (2) the 1973 expansion of Home and 
Automobile’s urban auto marketing into the Miami, Florida area, 
(3) a still unresolved aviation “fronting” arrangement, and (4) 
our Worker’s Compensation operation in California, which we 
believe retains an interesting potential upon completion of a 
reorganization now in progress.  It is comforting to be in a 
business where some mistakes can be made and yet a quite 
satisfactory overall performance can be achieved.  In a sense, 
this is the opposite case from our textile business where even 
very good management probably can average only modest results.  
One of the lessons your management has learned - and, 
unfortunately, sometimes re-learned - is the importance of being 
in businesses where tailwinds prevail rather than headwinds.

     In 1977 the winds in insurance underwriting were squarely 
behind us.  Very large rate increases were effected throughout 
the industry in 1976 to offset the disastrous underwriting 
results of 1974 and 1975.  But, because insurance policies 
typically are written for one-year periods, with pricing mistakes 
capable of correction only upon renewal, it was 1977 before the 
full impact was felt upon earnings of those earlier rate 
increases.

     The pendulum now is beginning to swing the other way.  We 
estimate that costs involved in the insurance areas in which we 
operate rise at close to 1% per month.  This is due to continuous 
monetary inflation affecting the cost of repairing humans and 
property, as well as “social inflation”, a broadening definition 
by society and juries of what is covered by insurance policies.  
Unless rates rise at a comparable 1% per month, underwriting 
profits must shrink.  Recently the pace of rate increases has 
slowed dramatically, and it is our expectation that underwriting 
margins generally will be declining by the second half of the 
year.

     We must again give credit to Phil Liesche, greatly assisted 
by Roland Miller in Underwriting and Bill Lyons in Claims, for an 
extraordinary underwriting achievement in National Indemnity’s 
traditional auto and general liability business during 1977.  
Large volume gains have been accompanied by excellent 
underwriting margins following contraction or withdrawal by many 
competitors in the wake of the 1974-75 crisis period.  These 
conditions will reverse before long.  In the meantime, National 
Indemnity’s underwriting profitability has increased dramatically 
and, in addition, large sums have been made available for 
investment.  As markets loosen and rates become inadequate, we 
again will face the challenge of philosophically accepting 
reduced volume.  Unusual managerial discipline will be required, 
as it runs counter to normal institutional behavior to let the 
other fellow take away business - even at foolish prices.

     Our reinsurance department, managed by George Young, 
improved its underwriting performance during 1977.  Although the 
combined ratio (see definition on page 12) of 107.1 was 
unsatisfactory, its trend was downward throughout the year.  In 
addition, reinsurance generates unusually high funds for 
investment as a percentage of premium volume.

     At Home and Auto, John Seward continued to make progress on 
all fronts.  John was a battlefield promotion several years ago 
when Home and Auto’s underwriting was awash in red ink and the 
company faced possible extinction.  Under his management it 
currently is sound, profitable, and growing.

     John Ringwalt’s homestate operation now consists of five 
companies, with Kansas Fire and Casualty Company becoming 
operational late in 1977 under the direction of Floyd Taylor.  
The homestate companies had net premium volume of $23 million, up 
from $5.5 million just three years ago.  All four companies that 
operated throughout the year achieved combined ratios below 100, 
with Cornhusker Casualty Company, at 93.8, the leader.  In 
addition to actively supervising the other four homestate 
operations, John Ringwalt manages the operations of Cornhusker 
which has recorded combined ratios below 100 in six of its seven 
full years of existence and, from a standing start in 1970, has 
grown to be one of the leading insurance companies operating in 
Nebraska utilizing the conventional independent agency system.  
Lakeland Fire and Casualty Company, managed by Jim Stodolka, was 
the winner of the Chairman’s Cup in 1977 for achieving the lowest 
loss ratio among the homestate companies.  All in all, the 
homestate operation continues to make excellent progress.

     The newest addition to our insurance group is Cypress 
Insurance Company of South Pasadena, California.  This Worker’s 
Compensation insurer was purchased for cash in the final days of 
1977 and, therefore, its approximate $12.5 million of volume for 
that year was not included in our results.  Cypress and National 
Indemnity’s present California Worker’s Compensation operation 
will not be combined, but will operate independently utilizing 
somewhat different marketing strategies.  Milt Thornton, 
President of Cypress since 1968, runs a first-class operation for 
policyholders, agents, employees and owners alike.  We look 
forward to working with him.

     Insurance companies offer standardized policies which can be 
copied by anyone.  Their only products are promises.  It is not 
difficult to be licensed, and rates are an open book.  There are 
no important advantages from trademarks, patents, location, 
corporate longevity, raw material sources, etc., and very little 
consumer differentiation to produce insulation from competition.  
It is commonplace, in corporate annual reports, to stress the 
difference that people make.  Sometimes this is true and 
sometimes it isn’t.  But there is no question that the nature of 
the insurance business magnifies the effect which individual 
managers have on company performance.  We are very fortunate to 
have the group of managers that are associated with us.

Insurance Investments

     During the past two years insurance investments at cost 
(excluding the investment in our affiliate, Blue Chip Stamps) 
have grown from $134.6 million to $252.8 million.  Growth in 
insurance reserves, produced by our large gain in premium volume, 
plus retained earnings, have accounted for this increase in 
marketable securities.  In turn, net investment income of the 
Insurance Group has improved from $8.4 million pre-tax in 1975 to 
$12.3 million pre-tax in 1977.

     In addition to this income from dividends and interest, we 
realized capital gains of $6.9 million before tax, about one-
quarter from bonds and the balance from stocks.  Our unrealized 
gain in stocks at yearend 1977 was approximately $74 million but 
this figure, like any other figure of a single date (we had an 
unrealized loss of $17 million at the end of 1974), should not be 
taken too seriously.  Most of our large stock positions are going 
to be held for many years and the scorecard on our investment 
decisions will be provided by business results over that period, 
and not by prices on any given day.  Just as it would be foolish 
to focus unduly on short-term prospects when acquiring an entire 
company, we think it equally unsound to become mesmerized by 
prospective near term earnings or recent trends in earnings when 
purchasing small pieces of a company; i.e., marketable common 
stocks.

     A little digression illustrating this point may be 
interesting.  Berkshire Fine Spinning Associates and Hathaway 
Manufacturing were merged in 1955 to form Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  
In 1948, on a pro forma combined basis, they had earnings after 
tax of almost $18 million and employed 10,000 people at a dozen 
large mills throughout New England.  In the business world of 
that period they were an economic powerhouse.  For example, in 
that same year earnings of IBM were $28 million (now $2.7 
billion), Safeway Stores, $10 million, Minnesota Mining, $13 
million, and Time, Inc., $9 million.  But, in the decade 
following the 1955 merger aggregate sales of $595 million 
produced an aggregate loss for Berkshire Hathaway of $10 million.  
By 1964 the operation had been reduced to two mills and net worth 
had shrunk to $22 million, from $53 million at the time of the 
merger.  So much for single year snapshots as adequate portrayals 
of a business.

     Equity holdings of our insurance companies with a market 
value of over $5 million on December 31, 1977 were as follows:

No. of Shares  Company                                     Cost      Market
-------------  -------                                   --------   --------
                                                           (000’s omitted)
    220,000    Capital Cities Communications, Inc. ..... $ 10,909   $ 13,228  
  1,986,953    Government Employees Insurance 
                  Company Convertible Preferred ........   19,417     33,033  
  1,294,308    Government Employees Insurance 
                  Company Common Stock .................    4,116     10,516
    592,650    The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.     4,531     17,187  
    324,580    Kaiser Aluminum& Chemical Corporation ...   11,218      9,981
  1,305,800    Kaiser Industries, Inc. .................      778      6,039
    226,900    Knight-Ridder Newspapers, Inc. ..........    7,534      8,736
    170,800    Ogilvy & Mather International, Inc. .....    2,762      6,960
    934,300    The Washington Post Company Class B .....   10,628     33,401
                                                         --------   --------
               Total ................................... $ 71,893   $139,081
               All Other Holdings ......................   34,996     41,992
                                                         --------   --------
               Total Equities .......................... $106,889   $181,073
                                                         ========   ========

     We select our marketable equity securities in much the same 
way we would evaluate a business for acquisition in its entirety.  
We want the business to be (1) one that we can understand, (2) 
with favorable long-term prospects, (3) operated by honest and 
competent people, and (4) available at a very attractive price.  
We ordinarily make no attempt to buy equities for anticipated 
favorable stock price behavior in the short term.  In fact, if 
their business experience continues to satisfy us, we welcome 
lower market prices of stocks we own as an opportunity to acquire 
even more of a good thing at a better price.

     Our experience has been that pro-rata portions of truly 
outstanding businesses sometimes sell in the securities markets 
at very large discounts from the prices they would command in 
negotiated transactions involving entire companies.  
Consequently, bargains in business ownership, which simply are 
not available directly through corporate acquisition, can be 
obtained indirectly through stock ownership.  When prices are 
appropriate, we are willing to take very large positions in 
selected companies, not with any intention of taking control and 
not foreseeing sell-out or merger, but with the expectation that 
excellent business results by corporations will translate over 
the long term into correspondingly excellent market value and 
dividend results for owners, minority as well as majority.

     Such investments initially may have negligible impact on our 
operating earnings.  For example, we invested $10.9 million in 
Capital Cities Communications during 1977.  Earnings attributable 
to the shares we purchased totaled about $1.3 million last year.  
But only the cash dividend, which currently provides $40,000 
annually, is reflected in our operating earnings figure.

     Capital Cities possesses both extraordinary properties and 
extraordinary management.  And these management skills extend 
equally to operations and employment of corporate capital.  To 
purchase, directly, properties such as Capital Cities owns would 
cost in the area of twice our cost of purchase via the stock 
market, and direct ownership would offer no important advantages 
to us.  While control would give us the opportunity - and the 
responsibility - to manage operations and corporate resources, we 
would not be able to provide management in either of those 
respects equal to that now in place.  In effect, we can obtain a 
better management result through non-control than control.  This 
is an unorthodox view, but one we believe to be sound.

Banking

     In 1977 the Illinois National Bank continued to achieve a 
rate of earnings on assets about three times that of most large 
banks.  As usual, this record was achieved while the bank paid 
maximum rates to savers and maintained an asset position 
combining low risk and exceptional liquidity.  Gene Abegg formed 
the bank in 1931 with $250,000.  In its first full year of 
operation, earnings amounted to $8,782.  Since that time, no new 
capital has been contributed to the bank; on the contrary, since 
our purchase in 1969, dividends of $20 million have been paid.  
Earnings in 1977 amounted to $3.6 million, more than achieved by 
many banks two or three times its size.

     Late last year Gene, now 80 and still running a banking 
operation without peer, asked that a successor be brought in.  
Accordingly, Peter Jeffrey, formerly President and Chief 
Executive Officer of American National Bank of Omaha, has joined 
the Illinois National Bank effective March 1st as President and 
Chief Executive Officer.

     Gene continues in good health as Chairman.  We expect a 
continued successful operation at Rockford’s leading bank.

Blue Chip Stamps

     We again increased our equity interest in Blue Chip Stamps, 
and owned approximately 36 1/2% at the end of 1977.  Blue Chip 
had a fine year, earning approximately $12.9 million from 
operations and, in addition, had realized securities gains of 
$4.1 million.

     Both Wesco Financial Corp., an 80% owned subsidiary of Blue 
Chip Stamps, managed by Louis Vincenti, and See’s Candies, a 99% 
owned subsidiary, managed by Chuck Huggins, made good progress in 
1977.  Since See’s was purchased by Blue Chip Stamps at the 
beginning of 1972, pre-tax operating earnings have grown from 
$4.2 million to $12.6 million with little additional capital 
investment.  See’s achieved this record while operating in an 
industry experiencing practically no unit growth.  Shareholders 
of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. may obtain the annual report of Blue 
Chip Stamps by requesting it from Mr. Robert H. Bird, Blue Chip 
Stamps, 5801 South Eastern Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90040.


                                    Warren E. Buffett, Chairman

March 14,1978








Chairman's Letter - 1978



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.


To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:

     First, a few words about accounting.  The merger with 
Diversified Retailing Company, Inc. at yearend adds two new 
complications in the presentation of our financial results.  
After the merger, our ownership of Blue Chip Stamps increased to 
approximately 58% and, therefore, the accounts of that company 
must be fully consolidated in the Balance Sheet and Statement of 
Earnings presentation of Berkshire.  In previous reports, our 
share of the net earnings only of Blue Chip had been included as 
a single item on Berkshire’s Statement of Earnings, and there had 
been a similar one-line inclusion on our Balance Sheet of our 
share of their net assets.

     This full consolidation of sales, expenses, receivables, 
inventories, debt, etc. produces an aggregation of figures from 
many diverse businesses - textiles, insurance, candy, newspapers, 
trading stamps - with dramatically different economic 
characteristics.  In some of these your ownership is 100% but, in 
those businesses which are owned by Blue Chip but fully 
consolidated, your ownership as a Berkshire shareholder is only 
58%. (Ownership by others of the balance of these businesses is 
accounted for by the large minority interest item on the 
liability side of the Balance Sheet.) Such a grouping of Balance 
Sheet and Earnings items - some wholly owned, some partly owned - 
tends to obscure economic reality more than illuminate it.  In 
fact, it represents a form of presentation that we never prepare 
for internal use during the year and which is of no value to us 
in any management activities.

     For that reason, throughout the report we provide much 
separate financial information and commentary on the various 
segments of the business to help you evaluate Berkshire’s 
performance and prospects.  Much of this segmented information is 
mandated by SEC disclosure rules and covered in “Management’s 
Discussion” on pages 29 to 34.  And in this letter we try to 
present to you a view of our various operating entities from the 
same perspective that we view them managerially.

     A second complication arising from the merger is that the 
1977 figures shown in this report are different from the 1977 
figures shown in the report we mailed to you last year.  
Accounting convention requires that when two entities such as 
Diversified and Berkshire are merged, all financial data 
subsequently must be presented as if the companies had been 
merged at the time they were formed rather than just recently.  
So the enclosed financial statements, in effect, pretend that in 
1977 (and earlier years) the Diversified-Berkshire merger already 
had taken place, even though the actual merger date was December 
30, 1978.  This shifting base makes comparative commentary 
confusing and, from time to time in our narrative report, we will 
talk of figures and performance for Berkshire shareholders as 
historically reported to you rather than as restated after the 
Diversified merger.

     With that preamble it can be stated that, with or without 
restated figures, 1978 was a good year.  Operating earnings, 
exclusive of capital gains, at 19.4% of beginning shareholders’ 
investment were within a fraction of our 1972 record.  While we 
believe it is improper to include capital gains or losses in 
evaluating the performance of a single year, they are an 
important component of the longer term record.  Because of such 
gains, Berkshire’s long-term growth in equity per share has been 
greater than would be indicated by compounding the returns from 
operating earnings that we have reported annually.

     For example, over the last three years - generally a bonanza 
period for the insurance industry, our largest profit producer - 
Berkshire’s per share net worth virtually has doubled, thereby 
compounding at about 25% annually through a combination of good 
operating earnings and fairly substantial capital gains.  Neither 
this 25% equity gain from all sources nor the 19.4% equity gain 
from operating earnings in 1978 is sustainable.  The insurance 
cycle has turned downward in 1979, and it is almost certain that 
operating earnings measured by return on equity will fall this 
year.  However, operating earnings measured in dollars are likely 
to increase on the much larger shareholders’ equity now employed 
in the business.

     In contrast to this cautious view about near term return 
from operations, we are optimistic about prospects for long term 
return from major equity investments held by our insurance 
companies.  We make no attempt to predict how security markets 
will behave; successfully forecasting short term stock price 
movements is something we think neither we nor anyone else can 
do.  In the longer run, however, we feel that many of our major 
equity holdings are going to be worth considerably more money 
than we paid, and that investment gains will add significantly to 
the operating returns of the insurance group.

Sources of Earnings

     To give you a better picture of just where Berkshire’s 
earnings are produced, we show below a table which requires a 
little explanation.  Berkshire owns close to 58% of Blue Chip 
which, in addition to 100% ownership of several businesses, owns 
80% of Wesco Financial Corporation.  Thus, Berkshire’s equity in 
Wesco’s earnings is about 46%.  In aggregate, businesses that we 
control have about 7,000 full-time employees and generate 
revenues of over $500 million.

     The table shows the overall earnings of each major operating 
category on a pre-tax basis (several of the businesses have low 
tax rates because of significant amounts of tax-exempt interest 
and dividend income), as well as the share of those earnings 
belonging to Berkshire both on a pre-tax and after-tax basis.  
Significant capital gains or losses attributable to any of the 
businesses are not shown in the operating earnings figure, but 
are aggregated on the “Realized Securities Gain” line at the 
bottom of the table.  Because of various accounting and tax 
intricacies, the figures in the table should not be treated as 
holy writ, but rather viewed as close approximations of the 1977 
and 1978 earnings contributions of our constituent businesses.


                                                                         Net Earnings
                                   Earnings Before Income Taxes            After Tax
                              --------------------------------------  ------------------
                                    Total          Berkshire Share     Berkshire Share
                              ------------------  ------------------  ------------------
(in thousands of dollars)       1978      1977      1978      1977      1978      1977
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Total - all entities ......... $66,180   $57,089   $54,350   $42,234   $39,242   $30,393
                              ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========
Earnings from operations:
  Insurance Group:
    Underwriting ............. $ 3,001   $ 5,802   $ 3,000   $ 5,802   $ 1,560   $ 3,017
    Net investment income ....  19,705    12,804    19,691    12,804    16,400    11,360
  Berkshire-Waumbec textiles     2,916      (620)    2,916      (620)    1,342      (322)
  Associated Retail 
     Stores, Inc. ............   2,757     2,775     2,757     2,775     1,176     1,429
  See’s Candies ..............  12,482    12,840     7,013     6,598     3,049     2,974
  Buffalo Evening News .......  (2,913)      751    (1,637)      389      (738)      158
  Blue Chip Stamps - Parent ..   2,133     1,091     1,198       566     1,382       892
  Illinois National Bank
     and Trust Company .......   4,822     3,800     4,710     3,706     4,262     3,288
  Wesco Financial
     Corporation - Parent ....   1,771     2,006       777       813       665       419
  Mutual Savings and
     Loan Association ........  10,556     6,779     4,638     2,747     3,042     1,946
  Interest on Debt ...........  (5,566)   (5,302)   (4,546)   (4,255)   (2,349)   (2,129)
  Other ......................     720       165       438       102       261        48
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
    Total Earnings from
       Operations ............ $52,384   $42,891   $40,955   $31,427   $30,052   $23,080
Realized Securities Gain .....  13,796    14,198    13,395    10,807     9,190     7,313
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
    Total Earnings ........... $66,180   $57,089   $54,350   $42,234   $39,242   $30,393
                              ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========

     Blue Chip and Wesco are public companies with reporting 
requirements of their own.  Later in this report we are 
reproducing the narrative reports of the principal executives of 
both companies, describing their 1978 operations.  Some of the 
figures they utilize will not match to the penny the ones we use 
in this report, again because of accounting and tax complexities.  
But their comments should be helpful to you in understanding the 
underlying economic characteristics of these important partly-
owned businesses.  A copy of the full annual report of either 
company will be mailed to any shareholder of Berkshire upon 
request to Mr. Robert H. Bird for Blue Chips Stamps, 5801 South 
Eastern Avenue, Los Angeles, California 90040, or to Mrs. Bette 
Deckard for Wesco Financial Corporation, 315 East Colorado 
Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91109.

Textiles

     Earnings of $1.3 million in 1978, while much improved from 
1977, still represent a low return on the $17 million of capital 
employed in this business.  Textile plant and equipment are on 
the books for a very small fraction of what it would cost to 
replace such equipment today.  And, despite the age of the 
equipment, much of it is functionally similar to new equipment 
being installed by the industry.  But despite this “bargain cost” 
of fixed assets, capital turnover is relatively low reflecting 
required high investment levels in receivables and inventory 
compared to sales.  Slow capital turnover, coupled with low 
profit margins on sales, inevitably produces inadequate returns 
on capital.  Obvious approaches to improved profit margins 
involve differentiation of product, lowered manufacturing costs 
through more efficient equipment or better utilization of people, 
redirection toward fabrics enjoying stronger market trends, etc.  
Our management is diligent in pursuing such objectives.  The 
problem, of course, is that our competitors are just as 
diligently doing the same thing.

     The textile industry illustrates in textbook style how 
producers of relatively undifferentiated goods in capital 
intensive businesses must earn inadequate returns except under 
conditions of tight supply or real shortage.  As long as excess 
productive capacity exists, prices tend to reflect direct 
operating costs rather than capital employed.  Such a supply-
excess condition appears likely to prevail most of the time in 
the textile industry, and our expectations are for profits of 
relatively modest amounts in relation to capital.

     We hope we don’t get into too many more businesses with such 
tough economic characteristics.  But, as we have stated before: 
(1) our textile businesses are very important employers in their 
communities, (2) management has been straightforward in reporting 
on problems and energetic in attacking them, (3) labor has been 
cooperative and understanding in facing our common problems, and 
(4) the business should average modest cash returns relative to 
investment.  As long as these conditions prevail - and we expect 
that they will - we intend to continue to support our textile 
business despite more attractive alternative uses for capital.

Insurance Underwriting

     The number one contributor to Berkshire’s overall excellent 
results in 1978 was the segment of National Indemnity Company’s 
insurance operation run by Phil Liesche.  On about $90 million of 
earned premiums, an underwriting profit of approximately $11 
million was realized, a truly extraordinary achievement even 
against the background of excellent industry conditions.  Under 
Phil’s leadership, with outstanding assistance by Roland Miller 
in Underwriting and Bill Lyons in Claims, this segment of 
National Indemnity (including National Fire and Marine Insurance 
Company, which operates as a running mate) had one of its best 
years in a long history of performances which, in aggregate, far 
outshine those of the industry.  Present successes reflect credit 
not only upon present managers, but equally upon the business 
talents of Jack Ringwalt, founder of National Indemnity, whose 
operating philosophy remains etched upon the company.

     Home and Automobile Insurance Company had its best year 
since John Seward stepped in and straightened things out in 1975.  
Its results are combined in this report with those of Phil 
Liesche’s operation under the insurance category entitled 
“Specialized Auto and General Liability”.

     Worker’s Compensation was a mixed bag in 1978.  In its first 
year as a subsidiary, Cypress Insurance Company, managed by Milt 
Thornton, turned in outstanding results.  The worker’s 
compensation line can cause large underwriting losses when rapid 
inflation interacts with changing social concepts, but Milt has a 
cautious and highly professional staff to cope with these 
problems.  His performance in 1978 has reinforced our very good 
feelings about this purchase.

     Frank DeNardo came with us in the spring of 1978 to 
straighten out National Indemnity’s California Worker’s 
Compensation business which, up to that point, had been a 
disaster.  Frank has the experience and intellect needed to 
correct the major problems of the Los Angeles office.  Our volume 
in this department now is running only about 25% of what it was 
eighteen months ago, and early indications are that Frank is 
making good progress.

     George Young’s reinsurance department continues to produce 
very large sums for investment relative to premium volume, and 
thus gives us reasonably satisfactory overall results.  However, 
underwriting results still are not what they should be and can 
be.  It is very easy to fool yourself regarding underwriting 
results in reinsurance (particularly in casualty lines involving 
long delays in settlement), and we believe this situation 
prevails with many of our competitors.  Unfortunately, self-
delusion in company reserving almost always leads to inadequate 
industry rate levels.  If major factors in the market don’t know 
their true costs, the competitive “fall-out” hits all - even 
those with adequate cost knowledge.  George is quite willing to 
reduce volume significantly, if needed, to achieve satisfactory 
underwriting, and we have a great deal of confidence in the long 
term soundness of this business under his direction.

     The homestate operation was disappointing in 1978.  Our 
unsatisfactory underwriting, even though partially explained by 
an unusual incidence of Midwestern storms, is particularly 
worrisome against the backdrop of very favorable industry results 
in the conventional lines written by our homestate group.  We 
have confidence in John Ringwalt’s ability to correct this 
situation.  The bright spot in the group was the performance of 
Kansas Fire and Casualty in its first full year of business.  
Under Floyd Taylor, this subsidiary got off to a truly remarkable 
start.  Of course, it takes at least several years to evaluate 
underwriting results, but the early signs are encouraging and 
Floyd’s operation achieved the best loss ratio among the 
homestate companies in 1978.

     Although some segments were disappointing, overall our 
insurance operation had an excellent year.  But of course we 
should expect a good year when the industry is flying high, as in 
1978.  It is a virtual certainty that in 1979 the combined ratio 
(see definition on page 31) for the industry will move up at 
least a few points, perhaps enough to throw the industry as a 
whole into an underwriting loss position.  For example, in the 
auto lines - by far the most important area for the industry and 
for us - CPI figures indicate rates overall were only 3% higher 
in January 1979 than a year ago.  But the items that make up loss 
costs - auto repair and medical care costs - were up over 9%.  
How different than yearend 1976 when rates had advanced over 22% 
in the preceding twelve months, but costs were up 8%.

     Margins will remain steady only if rates rise as fast as 
costs.  This assuredly will not be the case in 1979, and 
conditions probably will worsen in 1980.  Our present thinking is 
that our underwriting performance relative to the industry will 
improve somewhat in 1979, but every other insurance management 
probably views its relative prospects with similar optimism - 
someone is going to be disappointed.  Even if we do improve 
relative to others, we may well have a higher combined ratio and 
lower underwriting profits in 1979 than we achieved last year.

     We continue to look for ways to expand our insurance 
operation.  But your reaction to this intent should not be 
unrestrained joy.  Some of our expansion efforts - largely 
initiated by your Chairman have been lackluster, others have been 
expensive failures.  We entered the business in 1967 through 
purchase of the segment which Phil Liesche now manages, and it 
still remains, by a large margin, the best portion of our 
insurance business.  It is not easy to buy a good insurance 
business, but our experience has been that it is easier to buy 
one than create one.  However, we will continue to try both 
approaches, since the rewards for success in this field can be 
exceptional.

Insurance Investments

     We confess considerable optimism regarding our insurance 
equity investments.  Of course, our enthusiasm for stocks is not 
unconditional.  Under some circumstances, common stock 
investments by insurers make very little sense.

     We get excited enough to commit a big percentage of 
insurance company net worth to equities only when we find (1) 
businesses we can understand, (2) with favorable long-term 
prospects, (3) operated by honest and competent people, and (4) 
priced very attractively.  We usually can identify a small number 
of potential investments meeting requirements (1), (2) and (3), 
but (4) often prevents action.  For example, in 1971 our total 
common stock position at Berkshire’s insurance subsidiaries 
amounted to only $10.7 million at cost, and $11.7 million at 
market.  There were equities of identifiably excellent companies 
available - but very few at interesting prices. (An irresistible 
footnote: in 1971, pension fund managers invested a record 122% 
of net funds available in equities - at full prices they couldn’t 
buy enough of them.  In 1974, after the bottom had fallen out, 
they committed a then record low of 21% to stocks.)

     The past few years have been a different story for us.  At 
the end of 1975 our insurance subsidiaries held common equities 
with a market value exactly equal to cost of $39.3 million.  At 
the end of 1978 this position had been increased to equities 
(including a convertible preferred) with a cost of $129.1 million 
and a market value of $216.5 million.  During the intervening 
three years we also had realized pre-tax gains from common 
equities of approximately $24.7 million.  Therefore, our overall 
unrealized and realized pre-tax gains in equities for the three 
year period came to approximately $112 million.  During this same 
interval the Dow-Jones Industrial Average declined from 852 to 
805.  It was a marvelous period for the value-oriented equity 
buyer.

     We continue to find for our insurance portfolios small 
portions of really outstanding businesses that are available, 
through the auction pricing mechanism of security markets, at 
prices dramatically cheaper than the valuations inferior 
businesses command on negotiated sales.

     This program of acquisition of small fractions of businesses 
(common stocks) at bargain prices, for which little enthusiasm 
exists, contrasts sharply with general corporate acquisition 
activity, for which much enthusiasm exists.  It seems quite clear 
to us that either corporations are making very significant 
mistakes in purchasing entire businesses at prices prevailing in 
negotiated transactions and takeover bids, or that we eventually 
are going to make considerable sums of money buying small 
portions of such businesses at the greatly discounted valuations 
prevailing in the stock market. (A second footnote: in 1978 
pension managers, a group that logically should maintain the 
longest of investment perspectives, put only 9% of net available 
funds into equities - breaking the record low figure set in 1974 
and tied in 1977.)

     We are not concerned with whether the market quickly 
revalues upward securities that we believe are selling at bargain 
prices.  In fact, we prefer just the opposite since, in most 
years, we expect to have funds available to be a net buyer of 
securities.  And consistent attractive purchasing is likely to 
prove to be of more eventual benefit to us than any selling 
opportunities provided by a short-term run up in stock prices to 
levels at which we are unwilling to continue buying.

     Our policy is to concentrate holdings.  We try to avoid 
buying a little of this or that when we are only lukewarm about 
the business or its price.  When we are convinced as to 
attractiveness, we believe in buying worthwhile amounts.

Equity holdings of our insurance companies with a market value of 
over $8 million on December 31, 1978 were as follows:

No. of
Shares      Company                                     Cost       Market
----------  -------                                  ----------  ----------
                                                         (000s omitted)
  246,450   American Broadcasting Companies, Inc. ... $  6,082    $  8,626
1,294,308   Government Employees Insurance Company
               Common Stock .........................    4,116       9,060
1,986,953   Government Employees Insurance Company 
               Convertible Preferred ................   19,417      28,314
  592,650   Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. ....    4,531      19,039
1,066,934   Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical Corporation    18,085      18,671
  453,800   Knight-Ridder Newspapers, Inc. ..........    7,534      10,267
  953,750   SAFECO Corporation ......................   23,867      26,467
  934,300   The Washington Post Company .............   10,628      43,445
                                                     ----------  ----------
            Total ................................... $ 94,260    $163,889
            All Other Holdings ......................   39,506      57,040
                                                     ----------  ----------
            Total Equities .......................... $133,766    $220,929
                                                     ==========  ==========

     In some cases our indirect interest in earning power is 
becoming quite substantial.  For example, note our holdings of 
953,750 shares of SAFECO Corp. SAFECO probably is the best run 
large property and casualty insurance company in the United 
States.  Their underwriting abilities are simply superb, their 
loss reserving is conservative, and their investment policies 
make great sense.

     SAFECO is a much better insurance operation than our own 
(although we believe certain segments of ours are much better 
than average), is better than one we could develop and, 
similarly, is far better than any in which we might negotiate 
purchase of a controlling interest.  Yet our purchase of SAFECO 
was made at substantially under book value.  We paid less than 
100 cents on the dollar for the best company in the business, 
when far more than 100 cents on the dollar is being paid for 
mediocre companies in corporate transactions.  And there is no 
way to start a new operation - with necessarily uncertain 
prospects - at less than 100 cents on the dollar.

     Of course, with a minor interest we do not have the right to 
direct or even influence management policies of SAFECO.  But why 
should we wish to do this?  The record would indicate that they 
do a better job of managing their operations than we could do 
ourselves.  While there may be less excitement and prestige in 
sitting back and letting others do the work, we think that is all 
one loses by accepting a passive participation in excellent 
management.  Because, quite clearly, if one controlled a company 
run as well as SAFECO, the proper policy also would be to sit 
back and let management do its job.

     Earnings attributable to the shares of SAFECO owned by 
Berkshire at yearend amounted to $6.1 million during 1978, but 
only the dividends received (about 18% of earnings) are reflected 
in our operating earnings.  We believe the balance, although not 
reportable, to be just as real in terms of eventual benefit to us 
as the amount distributed.  In fact, SAFECO’s retained earnings 
(or those of other well-run companies if they have opportunities 
to employ additional capital advantageously) may well eventually 
have a value to shareholders greater than 100 cents on the 
dollar.

     We are not at all unhappy when our wholly-owned businesses 
retain all of their earnings if they can utilize internally those 
funds at attractive rates.  Why should we feel differently about 
retention of earnings by companies in which we hold small equity 
interests, but where the record indicates even better prospects 
for profitable employment of capital? (This proposition cuts the 
other way, of course, in industries with low capital 
requirements, or if management has a record of plowing capital 
into projects of low profitability; then earnings should be paid 
out or used to repurchase shares - often by far the most 
attractive option for capital utilization.)

     The aggregate level of such retained earnings attributable 
to our equity interests in fine companies is becoming quite 
substantial.  It does not enter into our reported operating 
earnings, but we feel it well may have equal long-term 
significance to our shareholders.  Our hope is that conditions 
continue to prevail in securities markets which allow our 
insurance companies to buy large amounts of underlying earning 
power for relatively modest outlays.  At some point market 
conditions undoubtedly will again preclude such bargain buying 
but, in the meantime, we will try to make the most of 
opportunities.

Banking

     Under Gene Abegg and Pete Jeffrey, the Illinois National 
Bank and Trust Company in Rockford continues to establish new 
records.  Last year’s earnings amounted to approximately 2.1% of 
average assets, about three times the level averaged by major 
banks.  In our opinion, this extraordinary level of earnings is 
being achieved while maintaining significantly less asset risk 
than prevails at most of the larger banks.

     We purchased the Illinois National Bank in March 1969.  It 
was a first-class operation then, just as it had been ever since 
Gene Abegg opened the doors in 1931.  Since 1968, consumer time 
deposits have quadrupled, net income has tripled and trust 
department income has more than doubled, while costs have been 
closely controlled.

     Our experience has been that the manager of an already high-
cost operation frequently is uncommonly resourceful in finding 
new ways to add to overhead, while the manager of a tightly-run 
operation usually continues to find additional methods to curtail 
costs, even when his costs are already well below those of his 
competitors.  No one has demonstrated this latter ability better 
than Gene Abegg.

     We are required to divest our bank by December 31, 1980.  
The most likely approach is to spin it off to Berkshire 
shareholders some time in the second half of 1980.

Retailing

     Upon merging with Diversified, we acquired 100% ownership of 
Associated Retail Stores, Inc., a chain of about 75 popular 
priced women’s apparel stores.  Associated was launched in 
Chicago on March 7, 1931 with one store, $3200, and two 
extraordinary partners, Ben Rosner and Leo Simon.  After Mr. 
Simon’s death, the business was offered to Diversified for cash 
in 1967.  Ben was to continue running the business - and run it, 
he has.

     Associated’s business has not grown, and it consistently has 
faced adverse demographic and retailing trends.  But Ben’s 
combination of merchandising, real estate and cost-containment 
skills has produced an outstanding record of profitability, with 
returns on capital necessarily employed in the business often in 
the 20% after-tax area.

     Ben is now 75 and, like Gene Abegg, 81, at Illinois National 
and Louie Vincenti, 73, at Wesco, continues daily to bring an 
almost passionately proprietary attitude to the business.  This 
group of top managers must appear to an outsider to be an 
overreaction on our part to an OEO bulletin on age 
discrimination.  While unorthodox, these relationships have been 
exceptionally rewarding, both financially and personally.  It is 
a real pleasure to work with managers who enjoy coming to work 
each morning and, once there, instinctively and unerringly think 
like owners.  We are associated with some of the very best.


                                    Warren E. Buffett, Chairman

March 26, 1979








Chairman's Letter - 1979



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.


To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:

     Again, we must lead off with a few words about accounting.  
Since our last annual report, the accounting profession has 
decided that equity securities owned by insurance companies must 
be carried on the balance sheet at market value.  We previously 
have carried such equity securities at the lower of aggregate 
cost or aggregate market value.  Because we have large unrealized 
gains in our insurance equity holdings, the result of this new 
policy is to increase substantially both the 1978 and 1979 
yearend net worth, even after the appropriate liability is 
established for taxes on capital gains that would be payable 
should equities be sold at such market valuations.

     As you know, Blue Chip Stamps, our 60% owned subsidiary, is 
fully consolidated in Berkshire Hathaway’s financial statements.  
However, Blue Chip still is required to carry its equity 
investments at the lower of aggregate cost or aggregate market 
value, just as Berkshire Hathaway’s insurance subsidiaries did 
prior to this year.  Should the same equities be purchased at an 
identical price by an insurance subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway 
and by Blue Chip Stamps, present accounting principles often 
would require that they end up carried on our consolidated 
balance sheet at two different values. (That should keep you on 
your toes.) Market values of Blue Chip Stamps’ equity holdings 
are given in footnote 3 on page 18.

1979 Operating Results

     We continue to feel that the ratio of operating earnings 
(before securities gains or losses) to shareholders’ equity with 
all securities valued at cost is the most appropriate way to 
measure any single year’s operating performance.

     Measuring such results against shareholders’ equity with 
securities valued at market could significantly distort the 
operating performance percentage because of wide year-to-year 
market value changes in the net worth figure that serves as the 
denominator.  For example, a large decline in securities values 
could result in a very low “market value” net worth that, in 
turn, could cause mediocre operating earnings to look 
unrealistically good.  Alternatively, the more successful that 
equity investments have been, the larger the net worth base 
becomes and the poorer the operating performance figure appears.  
Therefore, we will continue to report operating performance 
measured against beginning net worth, with securities valued at 
cost.

     On this basis, we had a reasonably good operating 
performance in 1979 - but not quite as good as that of 1978 - 
with operating earnings amounting to 18.6% of beginning net 
worth.  Earnings per share, of course, increased somewhat (about 
20%) but we regard this as an improper figure upon which to 
focus.  We had substantially more capital to work with in 1979 
than in 1978, and our performance in utilizing that capital fell 
short of the earlier year, even though per-share earnings rose.  
“Earnings per share” will rise constantly on a dormant savings 
account or on a U.S. Savings Bond bearing a fixed rate of return 
simply because “earnings” (the stated interest rate) are 
continuously plowed back and added to the capital base.  Thus, 
even a “stopped clock” can look like a growth stock if the 
dividend payout ratio is low.

     The primary test of managerial economic performance is the 
achievement of a high earnings rate on equity capital employed 
(without undue leverage, accounting gimmickry, etc.) and not the 
achievement of consistent gains in earnings per share.  In our 
view, many businesses would be better understood by their 
shareholder owners, as well as the general public, if managements 
and financial analysts modified the primary emphasis they place 
upon earnings per share, and upon yearly changes in that figure.

Long Term Results

     In measuring long term economic performance - in contrast to 
yearly performance - we believe it is appropriate to recognize 
fully any realized capital gains or losses as well as 
extraordinary items, and also to utilize financial statements 
presenting equity securities at market value.  Such capital gains 
or losses, either realized or unrealized, are fully as important 
to shareholders over a period of years as earnings realized in a 
more routine manner through operations; it is just that their 
impact is often extremely capricious in the short run, a 
characteristic that makes them inappropriate as an indicator of 
single year managerial performance.

     The book value per share of Berkshire Hathaway on September 
30, 1964 (the fiscal yearend prior to the time that your present 
management assumed responsibility) was $19.46 per share.  At 
yearend 1979, book value with equity holdings carried at market 
value was $335.85 per share.  The gain in book value comes to 
20.5% compounded annually.  This figure, of course, is far higher 
than any average of our yearly operating earnings calculations, 
and reflects the importance of capital appreciation of insurance 
equity investments in determining the overall results for our 
shareholders.  It probably also is fair to say that the quoted 
book value in 1964 somewhat overstated the intrinsic value of the 
enterprise, since the assets owned at that time on either a going 
concern basis or a liquidating value basis were not worth 100 
cents on the dollar. (The liabilities were solid, however.)

     We have achieved this result while utilizing a low amount of 
leverage (both financial leverage measured by debt to equity, and 
operating leverage measured by premium volume to capital funds of 
our insurance business), and also without significant issuance or 
repurchase of shares.  Basically, we have worked with the capital 
with which we started.  From our textile base we, or our Blue 
Chip and Wesco subsidiaries, have acquired total ownership of 
thirteen businesses through negotiated purchases from private 
owners for cash, and have started six others. (It’s worth a 
mention that those who have sold to us have, almost without 
exception, treated us with exceptional honor and fairness, both 
at the time of sale and subsequently.)

     But before we drown in a sea of self-congratulation, a 
further - and crucial - observation must be made.  A few years 
ago, a business whose per-share net worth compounded at 20% 
annually would have guaranteed its owners a highly successful 
real investment return.  Now such an outcome seems less certain.  
For the inflation rate, coupled with individual tax rates, will 
be the ultimate determinant as to whether our internal operating 
performance produces successful investment results - i.e., a 
reasonable gain in purchasing power from funds committed - for 
you as shareholders.

     Just as the original 3% savings bond, a 5% passbook savings 
account or an 8% U.S. Treasury Note have, in turn, been 
transformed by inflation into financial instruments that chew up, 
rather than enhance, purchasing power over their investment 
lives, a business earning 20% on capital can produce a negative 
real return for its owners under inflationary conditions not much 
more severe than presently prevail.

     If we should continue to achieve a 20% compounded gain - not 
an easy or certain result by any means - and this gain is 
translated into a corresponding increase in the market value of 
Berkshire Hathaway stock as it has been over the last fifteen 
years, your after-tax purchasing power gain is likely to be very 
close to zero at a 14% inflation rate.  Most of the remaining six 
percentage points will go for income tax any time you wish to 
convert your twenty percentage points of nominal annual gain into 
cash.

     That combination - the inflation rate plus the percentage of 
capital that must be paid by the owner to transfer into his own 
pocket the annual earnings achieved by the business (i.e., 
ordinary income tax on dividends and capital gains tax on 
retained earnings) - can be thought of as an “investor’s misery 
index”.  When this index exceeds the rate of return earned on 
equity by the business, the investor’s purchasing power (real 
capital) shrinks even though he consumes nothing at all.  We have 
no corporate solution to this problem; high inflation rates will 
not help us earn higher rates of return on equity.

     One friendly but sharp-eyed commentator on Berkshire has 
pointed out that our book value at the end of 1964 would have 
bought about one-half ounce of gold and, fifteen years later, 
after we have plowed back all earnings along with much blood, 
sweat and tears, the book value produced will buy about the same 
half ounce.  A similar comparison could be drawn with Middle 
Eastern oil.  The rub has been that government has been 
exceptionally able in printing money and creating promises, but 
is unable to print gold or create oil.

     We intend to continue to do as well as we can in managing 
the internal affairs of the business.  But you should understand 
that external conditions affecting the stability of currency may 
very well be the most important factor in determining whether 
there are any real rewards from your investment in Berkshire 
Hathaway.

Sources of Earnings

     We again present a table showing the sources of Berkshire’s 
earnings.  As explained last year, Berkshire owns about 60% of 
Blue Chip Stamps which, in turn, owns 80% of Wesco Financial 
Corporation.  The table shows both aggregate earnings of the 
various business entities, as well as Berkshire’s share.  All of 
the significant capital gains or losses attributable to any of 
the business entities are aggregated in the realized securities 
gain figure at the bottom of the table, and are not included in 
operating earnings.

                                                                         Net Earnings
                                   Earnings Before Income Taxes            After Tax
                              --------------------------------------  ------------------
                                    Total          Berkshire Share     Berkshire Share
                              ------------------  ------------------  ------------------
(in thousands of dollars)       1979      1978      1979      1978      1979      1978
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Total - all entities ......... $68,632   $66,180   $56,427   $54,350   $42,817   $39,242
                              ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========
Earnings from Operations:
  Insurance Group:
    Underwriting ............  $ 3,742   $ 3,001   $ 3,741   $ 3,000   $ 2,214   $ 1,560
    Net Investment Income ...   24,224    19,705    24,216    19,691    20,106    16,400
  Berkshire-Waumbec textiles     1,723     2,916     1,723     2,916       848     1,342
  Associated Retail 
     Stores, Inc. ...........    2,775     2,757     2,775     2,757     1,280     1,176
  See’s Candies .............   12,785    12,482     7,598     7,013     3,448     3,049
  Buffalo Evening News ......   (4,617)   (2,913)   (2,744)   (1,637)   (1,333)     (738)
  Blue Chip Stamps - Parent      2,397     2,133     1,425     1,198     1,624     1,382
  Illinois National Bank and
     Trust Company ..........    5,747     4,822     5,614     4,710     5,027     4,262
  Wesco Financial 
     Corporation - Parent ...    2,413     1,771     1,098       777       937       665
  Mutual Savings and Loan
     Association ............   10,447    10,556     4,751     4,638     3,261     3,042
  Precision Steel ...........    3,254      --       1,480      --         723      --
  Interest on Debt ..........   (8,248)   (5,566)   (5,860)   (4,546)   (2,900)   (2,349)
  Other .....................    1,342       720       996       438       753       261
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
     Total Earnings from
        Operations ..........  $57,984   $52,384   $46,813   $40,955   $35,988   $30,052
     Realized Securities Gain   10,648    13,796     9,614    13,395     6,829     9,190
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
     Total Earnings .........  $68,632   $66,180   $56,427   $54,350   $42,817   $39,242
                              ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========

     Blue Chip and Wesco are public companies with reporting 
requirements of their own.  On pages 37-43 of this report, we 
have reproduced the narrative reports of the principal executives 
of both companies, in which they describe 1979 operations.  Some 
of the numbers they mention in their reports are not precisely 
identical to those in the above table because of accounting and 
tax complexities. (The Yanomamo Indians employ only three 
numbers: one, two, and more than two.  Maybe their time will 
come.) However, the commentary in those reports should be helpful 
to you in understanding the underlying economic characteristics 
and future prospects of the important businesses that they 
manage.

     A copy of the full annual report of either company will be 
mailed to any shareholder of Berkshire upon request to Mr.  
Robert H. Bird for Blue Chip Stamps, 5801 South Eastern Avenue, 
Los Angeles, California 90040, or to Mrs. Bette Deckard for Wesco 
Financial Corporation, 315 East Colorado Boulevard, Pasadena, 
California 91109.

Textiles and Retailing

     The relative significance of these two areas has diminished 
somewhat over the years as our insurance business has grown 
dramatically in size and earnings.  Ben Rosner, at Associated 
Retail Stores, continues to pull rabbits out of the hat - big 
rabbits from a small hat.  Year after year, he produces very 
large earnings relative to capital employed - realized in cash 
and not in increased receivables and inventories as in many other 
retail businesses - in a segment of the market with little growth 
and unexciting demographics.  Ben is now 76 and, like our other 
“up-and-comers”, Gene Abegg, 82, at Illinois National and Louis 
Vincenti, 74, at Wesco, regularly achieves more each year.

     Our textile business also continues to produce some cash, 
but at a low rate compared to capital employed.  This is not a 
reflection on the managers, but rather on the industry in which 
they operate.  In some businesses - a network TV station, for 
example - it is virtually impossible to avoid earning 
extraordinary returns on tangible capital employed in the 
business.  And assets in such businesses sell at equally 
extraordinary prices, one thousand cents or more on the dollar, a 
valuation reflecting the splendid, almost unavoidable, economic 
results obtainable.  Despite a fancy price tag, the “easy” 
business may be the better route to go.

     We can speak from experience, having tried the other route.  
Your Chairman made the decision a few years ago to purchase 
Waumbec Mills in Manchester, New Hampshire, thereby expanding our 
textile commitment.  By any statistical test, the purchase price 
was an extraordinary bargain; we bought well below the working 
capital of the business and, in effect, got very substantial 
amounts of machinery and real estate for less than nothing.  But 
the purchase was a mistake.  While we labored mightily, new 
problems arose as fast as old problems were tamed.

     Both our operating and investment experience cause us to 
conclude that “turnarounds” seldom turn, and that the same 
energies and talent are much better employed in a good business 
purchased at a fair price than in a poor business purchased at a 
bargain price.  Although a mistake, the Waumbec acquisition has 
not been a disaster.  Certain portions of the operation are 
proving to be valuable additions to our decorator line (our 
strongest franchise) at New Bedford, and it’s possible that we 
may be able to run profitably on a considerably reduced scale at 
Manchester.  However, our original rationale did not prove out.

Insurance Underwriting

     We predicted last year that the combined underwriting ratio 
(see definition on page 36) for the insurance industry would 
“move up at least a few points, perhaps enough to throw the 
industry as a whole into an underwriting loss position”.  That is 
just about the way it worked out.  The industry underwriting 
ratio rose in 1979 over three points, from roughly 97.4% to 
100.7%. We also said that we thought our underwriting performance 
relative to the industry would improve somewhat in 1979 and, 
again, things worked out as expected.  Our own underwriting ratio 
actually decreased from 98.2% to 97.1%. Our forecast for 1980 is 
similar in one respect; again we feel that the industry’s 
performance will worsen by at least another few points.  However, 
this year we have no reason to think that our performance 
relative to the industry will further improve. (Don’t worry - we 
won’t hold back to try to validate that forecast.)

     Really extraordinary results were turned in by the portion 
of National Indemnity Company’s insurance operation run by Phil 
Liesche.  Aided by Roland Miller in Underwriting and Bill Lyons 
in Claims, this section of the business produced an underwriting 
profit of $8.4 million on about $82 million of earned premiums.  
Only a very few companies in the entire industry produced a 
result comparable to this.

     You will notice that earned premiums in this segment were 
down somewhat from those of 1978.  We hear a great many insurance 
managers talk about being willing to reduce volume in order to 
underwrite profitably, but we find that very few actually do so.  
Phil Liesche is an exception: if business makes sense, he writes 
it; if it doesn’t, he rejects it.  It is our policy not to lay 
off people because of the large fluctuations in work load 
produced by such voluntary volume changes.  We would rather have 
some slack in the organization from time to time than keep 
everyone terribly busy writing business on which we are going to 
lose money.  Jack Ringwalt, the founder of National Indemnity 
Company, instilled this underwriting discipline at the inception 
of the company, and Phil Liesche never has wavered in maintaining 
it.  We believe such strong-mindedness is as rare as it is sound 
- and absolutely essential to the running of a first-class 
casualty insurance operation.

     John Seward continues to make solid progress at Home and 
Automobile Insurance Company, in large part by significantly 
expanding the marketing scope of that company in general 
liability lines.  These lines can be dynamite, but the record to 
date is excellent and, in John McGowan and Paul Springman, we 
have two cautious liability managers extending our capabilities.

     Our reinsurance division, led by George Young, continues to 
give us reasonably satisfactory overall results after allowing 
for investment income, but underwriting performance remains 
unsatisfactory.  We think the reinsurance business is a very 
tough business that is likely to get much tougher.  In fact, the 
influx of capital into the business and the resulting softer 
price levels for continually increasing exposures may well 
produce disastrous results for many entrants (of which they may 
be blissfully unaware until they are in over their heads; much 
reinsurance business involves an exceptionally “long tail”, a 
characteristic that allows catastrophic current loss experience 
to fester undetected for many years).  It will be hard for us to 
be a whole lot smarter than the crowd and thus our reinsurance 
activity may decline substantially during the projected prolonged 
period of extraordinary competition.

     The Homestate operation was disappointing in 1979.  
Excellent results again were turned in by George Billings at 
Texas United Insurance Company, winner of the annual award for 
the low loss ratio among Homestate companies, and Floyd Taylor at 
Kansas Fire and Casualty Company.  But several of the other 
operations, particularly Cornhusker Casualty Company, our first 
and largest Homestate operation and historically a winner, had 
poor underwriting results which were accentuated by data 
processing, administrative and personnel problems.  We have made 
some major mistakes in reorganizing our data processing 
activities, and those mistakes will not be cured immediately or 
without cost.  However, John Ringwalt has thrown himself into the 
task of getting things straightened out and we have confidence 
that he, aided by several strong people who recently have been 
brought aboard, will succeed.

     Our performance in Worker’s Compensation was far, far better 
than we had any right to expect at the beginning of 1979.  We had 
a very favorable climate in California for the achievement of 
good results but, beyond this, Milt Thornton at Cypress Insurance 
Company and Frank DeNardo at National Indemnity’s California 
Worker’s Compensation operation both performed in a simply 
outstanding manner.  We have admitted - and with good reason - 
some mistakes on the acquisition front, but the Cypress purchase 
has turned out to be an absolute gem.  Milt Thornton, like Phil 
Liesche, follows the policy of sticking with business that he 
understands and wants, without giving consideration to the impact 
on volume.  As a result, he has an outstanding book of business 
and an exceptionally well functioning group of employees.  Frank 
DeNardo has straightened out the mess he inherited in Los Angeles 
in a manner far beyond our expectations, producing savings 
measured in seven figures.  He now can begin to build on a sound 
base.

     At yearend we entered the specialized area of surety 
reinsurance under the management of Chet Noble.  At least 
initially, this operation will be relatively small since our 
policy will be to seek client companies who appreciate the need 
for a long term “partnership” relationship with their reinsurers.  
We are pleased by the quality of the insurers we have attracted, 
and hope to add several more of the best primary writers as our 
financial strength and stability become better known in the 
surety field.

     The conventional wisdom is that insurance underwriting 
overall will be poor in 1980, but that rates will start to firm 
in a year or so, leading to a turn in the cycle some time in 
1981.  We disagree with this view.  Present interest rates 
encourage the obtaining of business at underwriting loss levels 
formerly regarded as totally unacceptable.  Managers decry the 
folly of underwriting at a loss to obtain investment income, but 
we believe that many will.  Thus we expect that competition will 
create a new threshold of tolerance for underwriting losses, and 
that combined ratios will average higher in the future than in 
the past.

     To some extent, the day of reckoning has been postponed 
because of marked reduction in the frequency of auto accidents - 
probably brought on in major part by changes in driving habits 
induced by higher gas prices.  In our opinion, if the habits 
hadn’t changed, auto insurance rates would have been very little 
higher and underwriting results would have been much worse.  This 
dosage of serendipity won’t last indefinitely.

     Our forecast is for an average combined ratio for the 
industry in the 105 area over the next five years.  While we have 
a high degree of confidence that certain of our operations will 
do considerably better than average, it will be a challenge to us 
to operate below the industry figure.  You can get a lot of 
surprises in insurance.

     Nevertheless, we believe that insurance can be a very good 
business.  It tends to magnify, to an unusual degree, human 
managerial talent - or the lack of it.  We have a number of 
managers whose talent is both proven and growing. (And, in 
addition, we have a very large indirect interest in two truly 
outstanding management groups through our investments in SAFECO 
and GEICO.) Thus we expect to do well in insurance over a period 
of years.  However, the business has the potential for really 
terrible results in a single specific year.  If accident 
frequency should turn around quickly in the auto field, we, along 
with others, are likely to experience such a year.

Insurance Investments

     In recent years we have written at length in this section 
about our insurance equity investments.  In 1979 they continued 
to perform well, largely because the underlying companies in 
which we have invested, in practically all cases, turned in 
outstanding performances.  Retained earnings applicable to our 
insurance equity investments, not reported in our financial 
statements, continue to mount annually and, in aggregate, now 
come to a very substantial number.  We have faith that the 
managements of these companies will utilize those retained 
earnings effectively and will translate a dollar retained by them 
into a dollar or more of subsequent market value for us.  In 
part, our unrealized gains reflect this process.

     Below we show the equity investments which had a yearend 
market value of over $5 million:

No. of Sh.  Company                                     Cost       Market
----------  -------                                  ----------  ----------
                                                         (000s omitted)
  289,700   Affiliated Publications, Inc. ........... $  2,821    $  8,800
  112,545   Amerada Hess ............................    2,861       5,487
  246,450   American Broadcasting Companies, Inc. ...    6,082       9,673
5,730,114   GEICO Corp. (Common Stock) ..............   28,288      68,045
  328,700   General Foods, Inc. .....................   11,437      11,053
1,007,500   Handy & Harman ..........................   21,825      38,537
  711,180   Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. ....    4,531      23,736
1,211,834   Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corp. ........   20,629      23,328
  282,500   Media General, Inc. .....................    4,545       7,345
  391,400   Ogilvy & Mather International ...........    3,709       7,828
  953,750   SAFECO Corporation ......................   23,867      35,527
1,868,000   The Washington Post Company .............   10,628      39,241
  771,900   F. W. Woolworth Company .................   15,515      19,394
                                                     ----------  ----------
            Total ................................... $156,738    $297,994
            All Other Holdings ......................   28,675      38,686
                                                     ----------  ----------
            Total Equities .......................... $185,413    $336,680
                                                     ==========  ==========

     We currently believe that equity markets in 1980 are likely 
to evolve in a manner that will result in an underperformance by 
our portfolio for the first time in recent years.  We very much 
like the companies in which we have major investments, and plan 
no changes to try to attune ourselves to the markets of a 
specific year.

     Since we have covered our philosophy regarding equities 
extensively in recent annual reports, a more extended discussion 
of bond investments may be appropriate for this one, particularly 
in light of what has happened since yearend.  An extraordinary 
amount of money has been lost by the insurance industry in the 
bond area - notwithstanding the accounting convention that allows 
insurance companies to carry their bond investments at amortized 
cost, regardless of impaired market value.  Actually, that very 
accounting convention may have contributed in a major way to the 
losses; had management been forced to recognize market values, 
its attention might have been focused much earlier on the dangers 
of a very long-term bond contract.

     Ironically, many insurance companies have decided that a 
one-year auto policy is inappropriate during a time of inflation, 
and six-month policies have been brought in as replacements.  
“How,” say many of the insurance managers, “can we be expected to 
look forward twelve months and estimate such imponderables as 
hospital costs, auto parts prices, etc.?” But, having decided 
that one year is too long a period for which to set a fixed price 
for insurance in an inflationary world, they then have turned 
around, taken the proceeds from the sale of that six-month 
policy, and sold the money at a fixed price for thirty or forty 
years.

     The very long-term bond contract has been the last major 
fixed price contract of extended duration still regularly 
initiated in an inflation-ridden world.  The buyer of money to be 
used between 1980 and 2020 has been able to obtain a firm price 
now for each year of its use while the buyer of auto insurance, 
medical services, newsprint, office space - or just about any 
other product or service - would be greeted with laughter if he 
were to request a firm price now to apply through 1985.  For in 
virtually all other areas of commerce, parties to long-term 
contracts now either index prices in some manner, or insist on 
the right to review the situation every year or so.

     A cultural lag has prevailed in the bond area.  The buyers 
(borrowers) and middlemen (underwriters) of money hardly could be 
expected to raise the question of whether it all made sense, and 
the sellers (lenders) slept through an economic and contractual 
revolution.

     For the last few years our insurance companies have not been 
a net purchaser of any straight long-term bonds (those without 
conversion rights or other attributes offering profit 
possibilities).  There have been some purchases in the straight 
bond area, of course, but they have been offset by sales or 
maturities.  Even prior to this period, we never would buy thirty 
or forty-year bonds; instead we tried to concentrate in the 
straight bond area on shorter issues with sinking funds and on 
issues that seemed relatively undervalued because of bond market 
inefficiencies.

     However, the mild degree of caution that we exercised was an 
improper response to the world unfolding about us.  You do not 
adequately protect yourself by being half awake while others are 
sleeping.  It was a mistake to buy fifteen-year bonds, and yet we 
did; we made an even more serious mistake in not selling them (at 
losses, if necessary) when our present views began to 
crystallize. (Naturally, those views are much clearer and 
definite in retrospect; it would be fair for you to ask why we 
weren’t writing about this subject last year.)

     Of course, we must hold significant amounts of bonds or 
other fixed dollar obligations in conjunction with our insurance 
operations.  In the last several years our net fixed dollar 
commitments have been limited to the purchase of convertible 
bonds.  We believe that the conversion options obtained, in 
effect, give that portion of the bond portfolio a far shorter 
average life than implied by the maturity terms of the issues 
(i.e., at an appropriate time of our choosing, we can terminate 
the bond contract by conversion into stock).

     This bond policy has given us significantly lower unrealized 
losses than those experienced by the great majority of property 
and casualty insurance companies.  We also have been helped by 
our strong preference for equities in recent years that has kept 
our overall bond segment relatively low.  Nevertheless, we are 
taking our lumps in bonds and feel that, in a sense, our mistakes 
should be viewed less charitably than the mistakes of those who 
went about their business unmindful of the developing problems.

     Harking back to our textile experience, we should have 
realized the futility of trying to be very clever (via sinking 
funds and other special type issues) in an area where the tide 
was running heavily against us.

     We have severe doubts as to whether a very long-term fixed-
interest bond, denominated in dollars, remains an appropriate 
business contract in a world where the value of dollars seems 
almost certain to shrink by the day.  Those dollars, as well as 
paper creations of other governments, simply may have too many 
structural weaknesses to appropriately serve as a unit of long 
term commercial reference.  If so, really long bonds may turn out 
to be obsolete instruments and insurers who have bought those 
maturities of 2010 or 2020 could have major and continuing 
problems on their hands.  We, likewise, will be unhappy with our 
fifteen-year bonds and will annually pay a price in terms of 
earning power that reflects that mistake.

     Some of our convertible bonds appear exceptionally 
attractive to us, and have the same sort of earnings retention 
factor (applicable to the stock into which they may be converted) 
that prevails in our conventional equity portfolio.  We expect to 
make money in these bonds (we already have, in a few cases) and 
have hopes that our profits in this area may offset losses in 
straight bonds.

     And, of course, there is the possibility that our present 
analysis is much too negative.  The chances for very low rates of 
inflation are not nil.  Inflation is man-made; perhaps it can be 
man-mastered.  The threat which alarms us may also alarm 
legislators and other powerful groups, prompting some appropriate 
response.

     Furthermore, present interest rates incorporate much higher 
inflation projections than those of a year or two ago.  Such 
rates may prove adequate or more than adequate to protect bond 
buyers.  We even may miss large profits from a major rebound in 
bond prices.  However, our unwillingness to fix a price now for a 
pound of See’s candy or a yard of Berkshire cloth to be delivered 
in 2010 or 2020 makes us equally unwilling to buy bonds which set 
a price on money now for use in those years.  Overall, we opt for 
Polonius (slightly restated): “Neither a short-term borrower nor 
a long-term lender be.”

Banking

     This will be the last year that we can report on the 
Illinois National Bank and Trust Company as a subsidiary of 
Berkshire Hathaway.  Therefore, it is particularly pleasant to 
report that, under Gene Abegg’s and Pete Jeffrey’s management, 
the bank broke all previous records and earned approximately 2.3% 
on average assets last year, a level again over three times that 
achieved by the average major bank, and more than double that of 
banks regarded as outstanding.  The record is simply 
extraordinary, and the shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway owe a 
standing ovation to Gene Abegg for the performance this year and 
every year since our purchase in 1969.

     As you know, the Bank Holding Company Act of 1969 requires 
that we divest the bank by December 31, 1980.  For some years we 
have expected to comply by effecting a spin-off during 1980.  
However, the Federal Reserve Board has taken the firm position 
that if the bank is spun off, no officer or director of Berkshire 
Hathaway can be an officer or director of the spun-off bank or 
bank holding company, even in a case such as ours in which one 
individual would own over 40% of both companies.

     Under these conditions, we are investigating the possible 
sale of between 80% and 100% of the stock of the bank.  We will 
be most choosy about any purchaser, and our selection will not be 
based solely on price.  The bank and its management have treated 
us exceptionally well and, if we have to sell, we want to be sure 
that they are treated equally as well.  A spin-off still is a 
possibility if a fair price along with a proper purchaser cannot 
be obtained by early fall.

     However, you should be aware that we do not expect to be 
able to fully, or even in very large part, replace the earning 
power represented by the bank from the proceeds of the sale of 
the bank.  You simply can’t buy high quality businesses at the 
sort of price/earnings multiple likely to prevail on our bank 
sale.

Financial Reporting

     During 1979, NASDAQ trading was initiated in the stock of 
Berkshire Hathaway This means that the stock now is quoted on the 
Over-the-Counter page of the Wall Street journal under 
“Additional OTC Quotes”.  Prior to such listing, the Wall Street 
journal and the Dow-Jones news ticker would not report our 
earnings, even though such earnings were one hundred or more 
times the level of some companies whose reports they regularly 
picked up.

     Now, however, the Dow-Jones news ticker reports our 
quarterly earnings promptly after we release them and, in 
addition, both the ticker and the Wall Street journal report our 
annual earnings.  This solves a dissemination problem that had 
bothered us.

     In some ways, our shareholder group is a rather unusual one, 
and this affects our manner of reporting to you.  For example, at 
the end of each year about 98% of the shares outstanding are held 
by people who also were shareholders at the beginning of the 
year.  Therefore, in our annual report we build upon what we have 
told you in previous years instead of restating a lot of 
material.  You get more useful information this way, and we don’t 
get bored.

     Furthermore, perhaps 90% of our shares are owned by 
investors for whom Berkshire is their largest security holding, 
very often far and away the largest.  Many of these owners are 
willing to spend a significant amount of time with the annual 
report, and we attempt to provide them with the same information 
we would find useful if the roles were reversed.

     In contrast, we include no narrative with our quarterly 
reports.  Our owners and managers both have very long time-
horizons in regard to this business, and it is difficult to say 
anything new or meaningful each quarter about events of long-term 
significance.

     But when you do receive a communication from us, it will 
come from the fellow you are paying to run the business.  Your 
Chairman has a firm belief that owners are entitled to hear 
directly from the CEO as to what is going on and how he evaluates 
the business, currently and prospectively.  You would demand that 
in a private company; you should expect no less in a public 
company.  A once-a-year report of stewardship should not be 
turned over to a staff specialist or public relations consultant 
who is unlikely to be in a position to talk frankly on a manager-
to-owner basis.

     We feel that you, as owners, are entitled to the same sort 
of reporting by your manager as we feel is owed to us at 
Berkshire Hathaway by managers of our business units.  Obviously, 
the degree of detail must be different, particularly where 
information would be useful to a business competitor or the like.  
But the general scope, balance, and level of candor should be 
similar.  We don’t expect a public relations document when our 
operating managers tell us what is going on, and we don’t feel 
you should receive such a document.

     In large part, companies obtain the shareholder constituency 
that they seek and deserve.  If they focus their thinking and 
communications on short-term results or short-term stock market 
consequences they will, in large part, attract shareholders who 
focus on the same factors.  And if they are cynical in their 
treatment of investors, eventually that cynicism is highly likely 
to be returned by the investment community.

     Phil Fisher, a respected investor and author, once likened 
the policies of the corporation in attracting shareholders to 
those of a restaurant attracting potential customers.  A 
restaurant could seek a given clientele - patrons of fast foods, 
elegant dining, Oriental food, etc. - and eventually obtain an 
appropriate group of devotees.  If the job were expertly done, 
that clientele, pleased with the service, menu, and price level 
offered, would return consistently.  But the restaurant could not 
change its character constantly and end up with a happy and 
stable clientele.  If the business vacillated between French 
cuisine and take-out chicken, the result would be a revolving 
door of confused and dissatisfied customers.

     So it is with corporations and the shareholder constituency 
they seek.  You can’t be all things to all men, simultaneously 
seeking different owners whose primary interests run from high 
current yield to long-term capital growth to stock market 
pyrotechnics, etc.

     The reasoning of managements that seek large trading 
activity in their shares puzzles us.  In effect, such managements 
are saying that they want a good many of the existing clientele 
continually to desert them in favor of new ones - because you 
can’t add lots of new owners (with new expectations) without 
losing lots of former owners.

     We much prefer owners who like our service and menu and who 
return year after year.  It would be hard to find a better group 
to sit in the Berkshire Hathaway shareholder “seats” than those 
already occupying them.  So we hope to continue to have a very 
low turnover among our owners, reflecting a constituency that 
understands our operation, approves of our policies, and shares 
our expectations.  And we hope to deliver on those expectations.

Prospects

     Last year we said that we expected operating earnings in 
dollars to improve but return on equity to decrease.  This turned 
out to be correct.  Our forecast for 1980 is the same.  If we are 
wrong, it will be on the downside.  In other words, we are 
virtually certain that our operating earnings expressed as a 
percentage of the new equity base of approximately $236 million, 
valuing securities at cost, will decline from the 18.6% attained 
in 1979.  There is also a fair chance that operating earnings in 
aggregate dollars will fall short of 1979; the outcome depends 
partly upon the date of disposition of the bank, partly upon the 
degree of slippage in insurance underwriting profitability, and 
partly upon the severity of earnings problems in the savings and 
loan industry.

     We continue to feel very good about our insurance equity 
investments.  Over a period of years, we expect to develop very 
large and growing amounts of underlying earning power 
attributable to our fractional ownership of these companies.  In 
most cases they are splendid businesses, splendidly managed, 
purchased at highly attractive prices.

     Your company is run on the principle of centralization of 
financial decisions at the top (the very top, it might be added), 
and rather extreme delegation of operating authority to a number 
of key managers at the individual company or business unit level.  
We could just field a basketball team with our corporate 
headquarters group (which utilizes only about 1500 square feet of 
space).

     This approach produces an occasional major mistake that 
might have been eliminated or minimized through closer operating 
controls.  But it also eliminates large layers of costs and 
dramatically speeds decision-making.  Because everyone has a 
great deal to do, a very great deal gets done.  Most important of 
all, it enables us to attract and retain some extraordinarily 
talented individuals - people who simply can’t be hired in the 
normal course of events - who find working for Berkshire to be 
almost identical to running their own show.

     We have placed much trust in them - and their achievements 
have far exceeded that trust.



                                    Warren E. Buffett, Chairman
March 3, 1980








Chairman's Letter - 1980



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.


To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:

     Operating earnings improved to $41.9 million in 1980 from 
$36.0 million in 1979, but return on beginning equity capital 
(with securities valued at cost) fell to 17.8% from 18.6%. We 
believe the latter yardstick to be the most appropriate measure 
of single-year managerial economic performance.  Informed use of 
that yardstick, however, requires an understanding of many 
factors, including accounting policies, historical carrying 
values of assets, financial leverage, and industry conditions.

     In your evaluation of our economic performance, we suggest 
that two factors should receive your special attention - one of a 
positive nature peculiar, to a large extent, to our own 
operation, and one of a negative nature applicable to corporate 
performance generally.  Let’s look at the bright side first.

Non-Controlled Ownership Earnings

     When one company owns part of another company, appropriate 
accounting procedures pertaining to that ownership interest must 
be selected from one of three major categories.  The percentage 
of voting stock that is owned, in large part, determines which 
category of accounting principles should be utilized.

     Generally accepted accounting principles require (subject to 
exceptions, naturally, as with our former bank subsidiary) full 
consolidation of sales, expenses, taxes, and earnings of business 
holdings more than 50% owned.  Blue Chip Stamps, 60% owned by 
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., falls into this category.  Therefore, 
all Blue Chip income and expense items are included in full in 
Berkshire’s Consolidated Statement of Earnings, with the 40% 
ownership interest of others in Blue Chip’s net earnings 
reflected in the Statement as a deduction for “minority 
interest”.

     Full inclusion of underlying earnings from another class of 
holdings, companies owned 20% to 50% (usually called 
“investees”), also normally occurs.  Earnings from such companies 
- for example, Wesco Financial, controlled by Berkshire but only 
48% owned - are included via a one-line entry in the owner’s 
Statement of Earnings.  Unlike the over-50% category, all items 
of revenue and expense are omitted; just the proportional share 
of net income is included.  Thus, if Corporation A owns one-third 
of Corporation B, one-third of B’s earnings, whether or not 
distributed by B, will end up in A’s earnings.  There are some 
modifications, both in this and the over-50% category, for 
intercorporate taxes and purchase price adjustments, the 
explanation of which we will save for a later day. (We know you 
can hardly wait.)

     Finally come holdings representing less than 20% ownership 
of another corporation’s voting securities.  In these cases, 
accounting rules dictate that the owning companies include in 
their earnings only dividends received from such holdings.  
Undistributed earnings are ignored.  Thus, should we own 10% of 
Corporation X with earnings of $10 million in 1980, we would 
report in our earnings (ignoring relatively minor taxes on 
intercorporate dividends) either (a) $1 million if X declared the 
full $10 million in dividends; (b) $500,000 if X paid out 50%, or 
$5 million, in dividends; or (c) zero if X reinvested all 
earnings.

     We impose this short - and over-simplified - course in 
accounting upon you because Berkshire’s concentration of 
resources in the insurance field produces a corresponding 
concentration of its assets in companies in that third (less than 
20% owned) category.  Many of these companies pay out relatively 
small proportions of their earnings in dividends.  This means 
that only a small proportion of their current earning power is 
recorded in our own current operating earnings.  But, while our 
reported operating earnings reflect only the dividends received 
from such companies, our economic well-being is determined by 
their earnings, not their dividends.

     Our holdings in this third category of companies have 
increased dramatically in recent years as our insurance business 
has prospered and as securities markets have presented 
particularly attractive opportunities in the common stock area.  
The large increase in such holdings, plus the growth of earnings 
experienced by those partially-owned companies, has produced an 
unusual result; the part of “our” earnings that these companies 
retained last year (the part not paid to us in dividends) 
exceeded the total reported annual operating earnings of 
Berkshire Hathaway.  Thus, conventional accounting only allows 
less than half of our earnings “iceberg” to appear above the 
surface, in plain view.  Within the corporate world such a result 
is quite rare; in our case it is likely to be recurring.

     Our own analysis of earnings reality differs somewhat from 
generally accepted accounting principles, particularly when those 
principles must be applied in a world of high and uncertain rates 
of inflation. (But it’s much easier to criticize than to improve 
such accounting rules.  The inherent problems are monumental.) We 
have owned 100% of businesses whose reported earnings were not 
worth close to 100 cents on the dollar to us even though, in an 
accounting sense, we totally controlled their disposition. (The 
“control” was theoretical.  Unless we reinvested all earnings, 
massive deterioration in the value of assets already in place 
would occur.  But those reinvested earnings had no prospect of 
earning anything close to a market return on capital.) We have 
also owned small fractions of businesses with extraordinary 
reinvestment possibilities whose retained earnings had an 
economic value to us far in excess of 100 cents on the dollar.

     The value to Berkshire Hathaway of retained earnings is not 
determined by whether we own 100%, 50%, 20% or 1% of the 
businesses in which they reside.  Rather, the value of those 
retained earnings is determined by the use to which they are put 
and the subsequent level of earnings produced by that usage.  
This is true whether we determine the usage, or whether managers 
we did not hire - but did elect to join - determine that usage. 
(It’s the act that counts, not the actors.) And the value is in 
no way affected by the inclusion or non-inclusion of those 
retained earnings in our own reported operating earnings.  If a 
tree grows in a forest partially owned by us, but we don’t record 
the growth in our financial statements, we still own part of the 
tree.

     Our view, we warn you, is non-conventional.  But we would 
rather have earnings for which we did not get accounting credit 
put to good use in a 10%-owned company by a management we did not 
personally hire, than have earnings for which we did get credit 
put into projects of more dubious potential by another management 
- even if we are that management.

     (We can’t resist pausing here for a short commercial.  One 
usage of retained earnings we often greet with special enthusiasm 
when practiced by companies in which we have an investment 
interest is repurchase of their own shares.  The reasoning is 
simple: if a fine business is selling in the market place for far 
less than intrinsic value, what more certain or more profitable 
utilization of capital can there be than significant enlargement 
of the interests of all owners at that bargain price?  The 
competitive nature of corporate acquisition activity almost 
guarantees the payment of a full - frequently more than full 
price when a company buys the entire ownership of another 
enterprise.  But the auction nature of security markets often 
allows finely-run companies the opportunity to purchase portions 
of their own businesses at a price under 50% of that needed to 
acquire the same earning power through the negotiated acquisition 
of another enterprise.)

Long-Term Corporate Results

     As we have noted, we evaluate single-year corporate 
performance by comparing operating earnings to shareholders’ 
equity with securities valued at cost.  Our long-term yardstick 
of performance, however, includes all capital gains or losses, 
realized or unrealized.  We continue to achieve a long-term 
return on equity that considerably exceeds the average of our 
yearly returns.  The major factor causing this pleasant result is 
a simple one: the retained earnings of those non-controlled 
holdings we discussed earlier have been translated into gains in 
market value.

     Of course, this translation of retained earnings into market 
price appreciation is highly uneven (it goes in reverse some 
years), unpredictable as to timing, and unlikely to materialize 
on a precise dollar-for-dollar basis.  And a silly purchase price 
for a block of stock in a corporation can negate the effects of a 
decade of earnings retention by that corporation.  But when 
purchase prices are sensible, some long-term market recognition 
of the accumulation of retained earnings almost certainly will 
occur.  Periodically you even will receive some frosting on the 
cake, with market appreciation far exceeding post-purchase 
retained earnings.

     In the sixteen years since present management assumed 
responsibility for Berkshire, book value per share with 
insurance-held equities valued at market has increased from 
$19.46 to $400.80, or 20.5% compounded annually. (You’ve done 
better: the value of the mineral content in the human body 
compounded at 22% annually during the past decade.) It is 
encouraging, moreover, to realize that our record was achieved 
despite many mistakes.  The list is too painful and lengthy to 
detail here.  But it clearly shows that a reasonably competitive 
corporate batting average can be achieved in spite of a lot of 
managerial strikeouts.

     Our insurance companies will continue to make large 
investments in well-run, favorably-situated, non-controlled 
companies that very often will pay out in dividends only small 
proportions of their earnings.  Following this policy, we would 
expect our long-term returns to continue to exceed the returns 
derived annually from reported operating earnings.  Our 
confidence in this belief can easily be quantified: if we were to 
sell the equities that we hold and replace them with long-term 
tax-free bonds, our reported operating earnings would rise 
immediately by over $30 million annually.  Such a shift tempts us 
not at all.  

     So much for the good news.

Results for Owners

     Unfortunately, earnings reported in corporate financial 
statements are no longer the dominant variable that determines 
whether there are any real earnings for you, the owner.  For only 
gains in purchasing power represent real earnings on investment.  
If you (a) forego ten hamburgers to purchase an investment; (b) 
receive dividends which, after tax, buy two hamburgers; and (c) 
receive, upon sale of your holdings, after-tax proceeds that will 
buy eight hamburgers, then (d) you have had no real income from 
your investment, no matter how much it appreciated in dollars.  
You may feel richer, but you won’t eat richer.

     High rates of inflation create a tax on capital that makes 
much corporate investment unwise - at least if measured by the 
criterion of a positive real investment return to owners.  This 
“hurdle rate” the return on equity that must be achieved by a 
corporation in order to produce any real return for its 
individual owners - has increased dramatically in recent years.  
The average tax-paying investor is now running up a down 
escalator whose pace has accelerated to the point where his 
upward progress is nil.

     For example, in a world of 12% inflation a business earning 
20% on equity (which very few manage consistently to do) and 
distributing it all to individuals in the 50% bracket is chewing 
up their real capital, not enhancing it. (Half of the 20% will go 
for income tax; the remaining 10% leaves the owners of the 
business with only 98% of the purchasing power they possessed at 
the start of the year - even though they have not spent a penny 
of their “earnings”).  The investors in this bracket would 
actually be better off with a combination of stable prices and 
corporate earnings on equity capital of only a few per cent.

     Explicit income taxes alone, unaccompanied by any implicit 
inflation tax, never can turn a positive corporate return into a 
negative owner return. (Even if there were 90% personal income 
tax rates on both dividends and capital gains, some real income 
would be left for the owner at a zero inflation rate.) But the 
inflation tax is not limited by reported income.  Inflation rates 
not far from those recently experienced can turn the level of 
positive returns achieved by a majority of corporations into 
negative returns for all owners, including those not required to 
pay explicit taxes. (For example, if inflation reached 16%, 
owners of the 60% plus of corporate America earning less than 
this rate of return would be realizing a negative real return - 
even if income taxes on dividends and capital gains were 
eliminated.)

     Of course, the two forms of taxation co-exist and interact 
since explicit taxes are levied on nominal, not real, income.  
Thus you pay income taxes on what would be deficits if returns to 
stockholders were measured in constant dollars.

     At present inflation rates, we believe individual owners in 
medium or high tax brackets (as distinguished from tax-free 
entities such as pension funds, eleemosynary institutions, etc.) 
should expect no real long-term return from the average American 
corporation, even though these individuals reinvest the entire 
after-tax proceeds from all dividends they receive.  The average 
return on equity of corporations is fully offset by the 
combination of the implicit tax on capital levied by inflation 
and the explicit taxes levied both on dividends and gains in 
value produced by retained earnings.

     As we said last year, Berkshire has no corporate solution to 
the problem. (We’ll say it again next year, too.) Inflation does 
not improve our return on equity.

     Indexing is the insulation that all seek against inflation.  
But the great bulk (although there are important exceptions) of 
corporate capital is not even partially indexed.  Of course, 
earnings and dividends per share usually will rise if significant 
earnings are “saved” by a corporation; i.e., reinvested instead 
of paid as dividends.  But that would be true without inflation.  
A thrifty wage earner, likewise, could achieve regular annual 
increases in his total income without ever getting a pay increase 
- if he were willing to take only half of his paycheck in cash 
(his wage “dividend”) and consistently add the other half (his 
“retained earnings”) to a savings account.  Neither this high-
saving wage earner nor the stockholder in a high-saving 
corporation whose annual dividend rate increases while its rate 
of return on equity remains flat is truly indexed.

     For capital to be truly indexed, return on equity must rise, 
i.e., business earnings consistently must increase in proportion 
to the increase in the price level without any need for the 
business to add to capital - including working capital - 
employed.  (Increased earnings produced by increased investment 
don’t count.) Only a few businesses come close to exhibiting this 
ability.  And Berkshire Hathaway isn’t one of them.

     We, of course, have a corporate policy of reinvesting 
earnings for growth, diversity and strength, which has the 
incidental effect of minimizing the current imposition of 
explicit taxes on our owners.  However, on a day-by-day basis, 
you will be subjected to the implicit inflation tax, and when you 
wish to transfer your investment in Berkshire into another form 
of investment, or into consumption, you also will face explicit 
taxes.

Sources of Earnings

     The table below shows the sources of Berkshire’s reported 
earnings.  Berkshire owns about 60% of Blue Chip Stamps, which in 
turn owns 80% of Wesco Financial Corporation.  The table shows 
aggregate earnings of the various business entities, as well as 
Berkshire’s share of those earnings.  All of the significant 
capital gains and losses attributable to any of the business 
entities are aggregated in the realized securities gains figure 
at the bottom of the table, and are not included in operating 
earnings.  Our calculation of operating earnings also excludes 
the gain from sale of Mutual’s branch offices.  In this respect 
it differs from the presentation in our audited financial 
statements that includes this item in the calculation of 
“Earnings Before Realized Investment Gain”.



                                                                         Net Earnings
                                   Earnings Before Income Taxes            After Tax
                              --------------------------------------  ------------------
                                    Total          Berkshire Share     Berkshire Share
                              ------------------  ------------------  ------------------
(in thousands of dollars)       1980      1979      1980      1979      1980      1979
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Total Earnings - all entities $ 85,945  $ 68,632  $ 70,146  $ 56,427  $ 53,122  $ 42,817
                              ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========
Earnings from Operations:
  Insurance Group:
    Underwriting ............ $  6,738  $  3,742  $  6,737  $  3,741  $  3,637  $  2,214
    Net Investment Income ...   30,939    24,224    30,927    24,216    25,607    20,106
  Berkshire-Waumbec Textiles      (508)    1,723      (508)    1,723       202       848
  Associated Retail Stores ..    2,440     2,775     2,440     2,775     1,169     1,280
  See’s Candies .............   15,031    12,785     8,958     7,598     4,212     3,448
  Buffalo Evening News ......   (2,805)   (4,617)   (1,672)   (2,744)     (816)   (1,333)
  Blue Chip Stamps - Parent      7,699     2,397     4,588     1,425     3,060     1,624
  Illinois National Bank ....    5,324     5,747     5,200     5,614     4,731     5,027
  Wesco Financial - Parent ..    2,916     2,413     1,392     1,098     1,044       937
  Mutual Savings and Loan ...    5,814    10,447     2,775     4,751     1,974     3,261
  Precision Steel ...........    2,833     3,254     1,352     1,480       656       723
  Interest on Debt ..........  (12,230)   (8,248)   (9,390)   (5,860)   (4,809)   (2,900)
  Other .....................    2,170     1,342     1,590       996     1,255       753
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
    Total Earnings from
       Operations ........... $ 66,361  $ 57,984  $ 54,389  $ 46,813  $ 41,922  $ 35,988
  Mutual Savings and Loan -
     sale of branches .......    5,873      --       2,803      --       1,293      --
Realized Securities Gain ....   13,711    10,648    12,954     9,614     9,907     6,829
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Total Earnings - all entities $ 85,945  $ 68,632  $ 70,146  $ 56,427  $ 53,122  $ 42,817
                              ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========

     Blue Chip Stamps and Wesco are public companies with 
reporting requirements of their own.  On pages 40 to 53 of this 
report we have reproduced the narrative reports of the principal 
executives of both companies, in which they describe 1980 
operations.  We recommend a careful reading, and suggest that you 
particularly note the superb job done by Louie Vincenti and 
Charlie Munger in repositioning Mutual Savings and Loan.  A copy 
of the full annual report of either company will be mailed to any 
Berkshire shareholder upon request to Mr. Robert H. Bird for Blue 
Chip Stamps, 5801 South Eastern Avenue, Los Angeles, California 
90040, or to Mrs. Bette Deckard for Wesco Financial Corporation, 
315 East Colorado Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91109.

     As indicated earlier, undistributed earnings in companies we 
do not control are now fully as important as the reported 
operating earnings detailed in the preceding table.  The 
distributed portion, of course, finds its way into the table 
primarily through the net investment income section of Insurance 
Group earnings.

     We show below Berkshire’s proportional holdings in those 
non-controlled businesses for which only distributed earnings 
(dividends) are included in our own earnings.

No. of Shares                                            Cost       Market
-------------                                         ----------  ----------
                                                          (000s omitted)
  434,550 (a)  Affiliated Publications, Inc. ......... $  2,821    $ 12,222
  464,317 (a)  Aluminum Company of America ...........   25,577      27,685
  475,217 (b)  Cleveland-Cliffs Iron Company .........   12,942      15,894
1,983,812 (b)  General Foods, Inc. ...................   62,507      59,889
7,200,000 (a)  GEICO Corporation .....................   47,138     105,300
2,015,000 (a)  Handy & Harman ........................   21,825      58,435
  711,180 (a)  Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. ..    4,531      22,135
1,211,834 (a)  Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corp. ......   20,629      27,569
  282,500 (a)  Media General .........................    4,545       8,334
  247,039 (b)  National Detroit Corporation ..........    5,930       6,299
  881,500 (a)  National Student Marketing ............    5,128       5,895
  391,400 (a)  Ogilvy & Mather Int’l. Inc. ...........    3,709       9,981
  370,088 (b)  Pinkerton’s, Inc. .....................   12,144      16,489
  245,700 (b)  R. J. Reynolds Industries .............    8,702      11,228
1,250,525 (b)  SAFECO Corporation ....................   32,062      45,177
  151,104 (b)  The Times Mirror Company ..............    4,447       6,271
1,868,600 (a)  The Washington Post Company ...........   10,628      42,277
  667,124 (b)  E W Woolworth Company .................   13,583      16,511
                                                      ----------  ----------
                                                       $298,848    $497,591
               All Other Common Stockholdings ........   26,313      32,096
                                                      ----------  ----------
               Total Common Stocks ................... $325,161    $529,687
                                                      ==========  ==========

(a) All owned by Berkshire or its insurance subsidiaries.
(b) Blue Chip and/or Wesco own shares of these companies.  All 
    numbers represent Berkshire’s net interest in the larger 
    gross holdings of the group.

     From this table, you can see that our sources of underlying 
earning power are distributed far differently among industries 
than would superficially seem the case.  For example, our 
insurance subsidiaries own approximately 3% of Kaiser Aluminum, 
and 1 1/4% of Alcoa.  Our share of the 1980 earnings of those 
companies amounts to about $13 million. (If translated dollar for 
dollar into a combination of eventual market value gain and 
dividends, this figure would have to be reduced by a significant, 
but not precisely determinable, amount of tax; perhaps 25% would 
be a fair assumption.) Thus, we have a much larger economic 
interest in the aluminum business than in practically any of the 
operating businesses we control and on which we report in more 
detail.  If we maintain our holdings, our long-term performance 
will be more affected by the future economics of the aluminum 
industry than it will by direct operating decisions we make 
concerning most companies over which we exercise managerial 
control.

GEICO Corp.

     Our largest non-controlled holding is 7.2 million shares of 
GEICO Corp., equal to about a 33% equity interest.  Normally, an 
interest of this magnitude (over 20%) would qualify as an 
“investee” holding and would require us to reflect a 
proportionate share of GEICO’s earnings in our own.  However, we 
purchased our GEICO stock pursuant to special orders of the 
District of Columbia and New York Insurance Departments, which 
required that the right to vote the stock be placed with an 
independent party.  Absent the vote, our 33% interest does not 
qualify for investee treatment. (Pinkerton’s is a similar 
situation.) 

     Of course, whether or not the undistributed earnings of 
GEICO are picked up annually in our operating earnings figure has 
nothing to do with their economic value to us, or to you as 
owners of Berkshire.  The value of these retained earnings will 
be determined by the skill with which they are put to use by 
GEICO management.

     On this score, we simply couldn’t feel better.  GEICO 
represents the best of all investment worlds - the coupling of a 
very important and very hard to duplicate business advantage with 
an extraordinary management whose skills in operations are 
matched by skills in capital allocation.

     As you can see, our holdings cost us $47 million, with about 
half of this amount invested in 1976 and most of the remainder 
invested in 1980.  At the present dividend rate, our reported 
earnings from GEICO amount to a little over $3 million annually.  
But we estimate our share of its earning power is on the order of 
$20 million annually.  Thus, undistributed earnings applicable to 
this holding alone may amount to 40% of total reported operating 
earnings of Berkshire.

     We should emphasize that we feel as comfortable with GEICO 
management retaining an estimated $17 million of earnings 
applicable to our ownership as we would if that sum were in our 
own hands.  In just the last two years GEICO, through repurchases 
of its own stock, has reduced the share equivalents it has 
outstanding from 34.2 million to 21.6 million, dramatically 
enhancing the interests of shareholders in a business that simply 
can’t be replicated.  The owners could not have been better 
served.

     We have written in past reports about the disappointments 
that usually result from purchase and operation of “turnaround” 
businesses.  Literally hundreds of turnaround possibilities in 
dozens of industries have been described to us over the years 
and, either as participants or as observers, we have tracked 
performance against expectations.  Our conclusion is that, with 
few exceptions, when a management with a reputation for 
brilliance tackles a business with a reputation for poor 
fundamental economics, it is the reputation of the business that 
remains intact.

     GEICO may appear to be an exception, having been turned 
around from the very edge of bankruptcy in 1976.  It certainly is 
true that managerial brilliance was needed for its resuscitation, 
and that Jack Byrne, upon arrival in that year, supplied that 
ingredient in abundance.

     But it also is true that the fundamental business advantage 
that GEICO had enjoyed - an advantage that previously had 
produced staggering success - was still intact within the 
company, although submerged in a sea of financial and operating 
troubles.

     GEICO was designed to be the low-cost operation in an 
enormous marketplace (auto insurance) populated largely by 
companies whose marketing structures restricted adaptation.  Run 
as designed, it could offer unusual value to its customers while 
earning unusual returns for itself.  For decades it had been run 
in just this manner.  Its troubles in the mid-70s were not 
produced by any diminution or disappearance of this essential 
economic advantage.

     GEICO’s problems at that time put it in a position analogous 
to that of American Express in 1964 following the salad oil 
scandal.  Both were one-of-a-kind companies, temporarily reeling 
from the effects of a fiscal blow that did not destroy their 
exceptional underlying economics.  The GEICO and American Express 
situations, extraordinary business franchises with a localized 
excisable cancer (needing, to be sure, a skilled surgeon), should 
be distinguished from the true “turnaround” situation in which 
the managers expect - and need - to pull off a corporate 
Pygmalion.

     Whatever the appellation, we are delighted with our GEICO 
holding which, as noted, cost us $47 million.  To buy a similar 
$20 million of earning power in a business with first-class 
economic characteristics and bright prospects would cost a 
minimum of $200 million (much more in some industries) if it had 
to be accomplished through negotiated purchase of an entire 
company.  A 100% interest of that kind gives the owner the 
options of leveraging the purchase, changing managements, 
directing cash flow, and selling the business.  It may also 
provide some excitement around corporate headquarters (less 
frequently mentioned).

     We find it perfectly satisfying that the nature of our 
insurance business dictates we buy many minority portions of 
already well-run businesses (at prices far below our share of the 
total value of the entire business) that do not need management 
change, re-direction of cash flow, or sale.  There aren’t many 
Jack Byrnes in the managerial world, or GEICOs in the business 
world.  What could be better than buying into a partnership with 
both of them?

Insurance Industry Conditions

     The insurance industry’s underwriting picture continues to 
unfold about as we anticipated, with the combined ratio (see 
definition on page 37) rising from 100.6 in 1979 to an estimated 
103.5 in 1980.  It is virtually certain that this trend will 
continue and that industry underwriting losses will mount, 
significantly and progressively, in 1981 and 1982.  To understand 
why, we recommend that you read the excellent analysis of 
property-casualty competitive dynamics done by Barbara Stewart of 
Chubb Corp. in an October 1980 paper. (Chubb’s annual report 
consistently presents the most insightful, candid and well-
written discussion of industry conditions; you should get on the 
company’s mailing list.) Mrs. Stewart’s analysis may not be 
cheerful, but we think it is very likely to be accurate.

     And, unfortunately, a largely unreported but particularly 
pernicious problem may well prolong and intensify the coming 
industry agony.  It is not only likely to keep many insurers 
scrambling for business when underwriting losses hit record 
levels - it is likely to cause them at such a time to redouble 
their efforts.

     This problem arises from the decline in bond prices and the 
insurance accounting convention that allows companies to carry 
bonds at amortized cost, regardless of market value.  Many 
insurers own long-term bonds that, at amortized cost, amount to 
two to three times net worth.  If the level is three times, of 
course, a one-third shrink from cost in bond prices - if it were 
to be recognized on the books - would wipe out net worth.  And 
shrink they have.  Some of the largest and best known property-
casualty companies currently find themselves with nominal, or 
even negative, net worth when bond holdings are valued at market.  
Of course their bonds could rise in price, thereby partially, or 
conceivably even fully, restoring the integrity of stated net 
worth.  Or they could fall further. (We believe that short-term 
forecasts of stock or bond prices are useless.  The forecasts may 
tell you a great deal about the forecaster; they tell you nothing 
about the future.)

     It might strike some as strange that an insurance company’s 
survival is threatened when its stock portfolio falls 
sufficiently in price to reduce net worth significantly, but that 
an even greater decline in bond prices produces no reaction at 
all.  The industry would respond by pointing out that, no matter 
what the current price, the bonds will be paid in full at 
maturity, thereby eventually eliminating any interim price 
decline.  It may take twenty, thirty, or even forty years, this 
argument says, but, as long as the bonds don’t have to be sold, 
in the end they’ll all be worth face value.  Of course, if they 
are sold even if they are replaced with similar bonds offering 
better relative value - the loss must be booked immediately.  
And, just as promptly, published net worth must be adjusted 
downward by the amount of the loss.

     Under such circumstances, a great many investment options 
disappear, perhaps for decades.  For example, when large 
underwriting losses are in prospect, it may make excellent 
business logic for some insurers to shift from tax-exempt bonds 
into taxable bonds.  Unwillingness to recognize major bond losses 
may be the sole factor that prevents such a sensible move.

     But the full implications flowing from massive unrealized 
bond losses are far more serious than just the immobilization of 
investment intellect.  For the source of funds to purchase and 
hold those bonds is a pool of money derived from policyholders 
and claimants (with changing faces) - money which, in effect, is 
temporarily on deposit with the insurer.  As long as this pool 
retains its size, no bonds must be sold.  If the pool of funds 
shrinks - which it will if the volume of business declines 
significantly - assets must be sold to pay off the liabilities.  
And if those assets consist of bonds with big unrealized losses, 
such losses will rapidly become realized, decimating net worth in 
the process.

     Thus, an insurance company with a bond market value 
shrinkage approaching stated net worth (of which there are now 
many) and also faced with inadequate rate levels that are sure to 
deteriorate further has two options.  One option for management 
is to tell the underwriters to keep pricing according to the 
exposure involved - “be sure to get a dollar of premium for every 
dollar of expense cost plus expectable loss cost”.

     The consequences of this directive are predictable: (a) with 
most business both price sensitive and renewable annually, many 
policies presently on the books will be lost to competitors in 
rather short order; (b) as premium volume shrinks significantly, 
there will be a lagged but corresponding decrease in liabilities 
(unearned premiums and claims payable); (c) assets (bonds) must 
be sold to match the decrease in liabilities; and (d) the 
formerly unrecognized disappearance of net worth will become 
partially recognized (depending upon the extent of such sales) in 
the insurer’s published financial statements.

     Variations of this depressing sequence involve a smaller 
penalty to stated net worth.  The reaction of some companies at 
(c) would be to sell either stocks that are already carried at 
market values or recently purchased bonds involving less severe 
losses.  This ostrich-like behavior - selling the better assets 
and keeping the biggest losers - while less painful in the short 
term, is unlikely to be a winner in the long term.

     The second option is much simpler: just keep writing 
business regardless of rate levels and whopping prospective 
underwriting losses, thereby maintaining the present levels of 
premiums, assets and liabilities - and then pray for a better 
day, either for underwriting or for bond prices.  There is much 
criticism in the trade press of “cash flow” underwriting; i.e., 
writing business regardless of prospective underwriting losses in 
order to obtain funds to invest at current high interest rates.  
This second option might properly be termed “asset maintenance” 
underwriting - the acceptance of terrible business just to keep 
the assets you now have.

     Of course you know which option will be selected.  And it 
also is clear that as long as many large insurers feel compelled 
to choose that second option, there will be no better day for 
underwriting.  For if much of the industry feels it must maintain 
premium volume levels regardless of price adequacy, all insurers 
will have to come close to meeting those prices.  Right behind 
having financial problems yourself, the next worst plight is to 
have a large group of competitors with financial problems that 
they can defer by a “sell-at-any-price” policy.

     We mentioned earlier that companies that were unwilling - 
for any of a number of reasons, including public reaction, 
institutional pride, or protection of stated net worth - to sell 
bonds at price levels forcing recognition of major losses might 
find themselves frozen in investment posture for a decade or 
longer.  But, as noted, that’s only half of the problem.  
Companies that have made extensive commitments to long-term bonds 
may have lost, for a considerable period of time, not only many 
of their investment options, but many of their underwriting 
options as well.

     Our own position in this respect is satisfactory.  We 
believe our net worth, valuing bonds of all insurers at amortized 
cost, is the strongest relative to premium volume among all large 
property-casualty stockholder-owned groups.  When bonds are 
valued at market, our relative strength becomes far more 
dramatic. (But lest we get too puffed up, we remind ourselves 
that our asset and liability maturities still are far more 
mismatched than we would wish and that we, too, lost important 
sums in bonds because your Chairman was talking when he should 
have been acting.)

     Our abundant capital and investment flexibility will enable 
us to do whatever we think makes the most sense during the 
prospective extended period of inadequate pricing.  But troubles 
for the industry mean troubles for us.  Our financial strength 
doesn’t remove us from the hostile pricing environment now 
enveloping the entire property-casualty insurance industry.  It 
just gives us more staying power and more options.

Insurance Operations

     The National Indemnity managers, led by Phil Liesche with 
the usual able assistance of Roland Miller and Bill Lyons, outdid 
themselves in 1980.  While volume was flat, underwriting margins 
relative to the industry were at an all-time high.  We expect 
decreased volume from this operation in 1981.  But its managers 
will hear no complaints from corporate headquarters, nor will 
employment or salaries suffer.  We enormously admire the National 
Indemnity underwriting discipline - embedded from origin by the 
founder, Jack Ringwalt - and know that this discipline, if 
suspended, probably could not be fully regained.

     John Seward at Home and Auto continues to make good progress 
in replacing a diminishing number of auto policies with volume 
from less competitive lines, primarily small-premium general 
liability.  Operations are being slowly expanded, both 
geographically and by product line, as warranted by underwriting 
results.

     The reinsurance business continues to reflect the excesses 
and problems of the primary writers.  Worse yet, it has the 
potential for magnifying such excesses.  Reinsurance is 
characterized by extreme ease of entry, large premium payments in 
advance, and much-delayed loss reports and loss payments.  
Initially, the morning mail brings lots of cash and few claims.  
This state of affairs can produce a blissful, almost euphoric, 
feeling akin to that experienced by an innocent upon receipt of 
his first credit card.

     The magnetic lure of such cash-generating characteristics, 
currently enhanced by the presence of high interest rates, is 
transforming the reinsurance market into “amateur night”.  
Without a super catastrophe, industry underwriting will be poor 
in the next few years.  If we experience such a catastrophe, 
there could be a bloodbath with some companies not able to live 
up to contractual commitments.  George Young continues to do a 
first-class job for us in this business.  Results, with 
investment income included, have been reasonably profitable.  We 
will retain an active reinsurance presence but, for the 
foreseeable future, we expect no premium growth from this 
activity.

     We continue to have serious problems in the Homestate 
operation.  Floyd Taylor in Kansas has done an outstanding job 
but our underwriting record elsewhere is considerably below 
average.  Our poorest performer has been Insurance Company of 
Iowa, at which large losses have been sustained annually since 
its founding in 1973.  Late in the fall we abandoned underwriting 
in that state, and have merged the company into Cornhusker 
Casualty.  There is potential in the homestate concept, but much 
work needs to be done in order to realize it.

     Our Workers Compensation operation suffered a severe loss 
when Frank DeNardo died last year at 37. Frank instinctively 
thought like an underwriter.  He was a superb technician and a 
fierce competitor; in short order he had straightened out major 
problems at the California Workers Compensation Division of 
National Indemnity.  Dan Grossman, who originally brought Frank 
to us, stepped in immediately after Frank’s death to continue 
that operation, which now utilizes Redwood Fire and Casualty, 
another Berkshire subsidiary, as the insuring vehicle.

     Our major Workers Compensation operation, Cypress Insurance 
Company, run by Milt Thornton, continues its outstanding record.  
Year after year Milt, like Phil Liesche, runs an underwriting 
operation that far outpaces his competition.  In the industry he 
is admired and copied, but not matched.

     Overall, we look for a significant decline in insurance 
volume in 1981 along with a poorer underwriting result.  We 
expect underwriting experience somewhat superior to that of the 
industry but, of course, so does most of the industry.  There 
will be some disappointments.

Textile and Retail Operations

     During the past year we have cut back the scope of our 
textile business.  Operations at Waumbec Mills have been 
terminated, reluctantly but necessarily.  Some equipment was 
transferred to New Bedford but most has been sold, or will be, 
along with real estate.  Your Chairman made a costly mistake in 
not facing the realities of this situation sooner.

     At New Bedford we have reduced the number of looms operated 
by about one-third, abandoning some high-volume lines in which 
product differentiation was insignificant.  Even assuming 
everything went right - which it seldom did - these lines could 
not generate adequate returns related to investment.  And, over a 
full industry cycle, losses were the most likely result.

     Our remaining textile operation, still sizable, has been 
divided into a manufacturing and a sales division, each free to 
do business independent of the other.  Thus, distribution 
strengths and mill capabilities will not be wedded to each other.  
We have more than doubled capacity in our most profitable textile 
segment through a recent purchase of used 130-inch Saurer looms.  
Current conditions indicate another tough year in textiles, but 
with substantially less capital employed in the operation.

     Ben Rosner’s record at Associated Retail Stores continues to 
amaze us.  In a poor retailing year, Associated’s earnings 
continued excellent - and those earnings all were translated into 
cash.  On March 7, 1981 Associated will celebrate its 50th 
birthday.  Ben has run the business (along with Leo Simon, his 
partner from 1931 to 1966) in each of those fifty years.

Disposition of Illinois National Bank and Trust of Rockford

     On December 31, 1980 we completed the exchange of 41,086 
shares of Rockford Bancorp Inc. (which owns 97.7% of Illinois 
National Bank) for a like number of shares of Berkshire Hathaway 
Inc.

     Our method of exchange allowed all Berkshire shareholders to 
maintain their proportional interest in the Bank (except for me; 
I was permitted 80% of my proportional share).  They were thus 
guaranteed an ownership position identical to that they would 
have attained had we followed a more conventional spinoff 
approach.  Twenty-four shareholders (of our approximate 1300) 
chose this proportional exchange option.

     We also allowed overexchanges, and thirty-nine additional 
shareholders accepted this option, thereby increasing their 
ownership in the Bank and decreasing their proportional ownership 
in Berkshire.  All got the full amount of Bancorp stock they 
requested, since the total shares desired by these thirty-nine 
holders was just slightly less than the number left available by 
the remaining 1200-plus holders of Berkshire who elected not to 
part with any Berkshire shares at all.  As the exchanger of last 
resort, I took the small balance (3% of Bancorp’s stock).  These 
shares, added to shares I received from my basic exchange 
allotment (80% of normal), gave me a slightly reduced 
proportional interest in the Bank and a slightly enlarged 
proportional interest in Berkshire.

     Management of the Bank is pleased with the outcome.  Bancorp 
will operate as an inexpensive and uncomplicated holding company 
owned by 65 shareholders.  And all of those shareholders will 
have become Bancorp owners through a conscious affirmative 
decision.

Financing

     In August we sold $60 million of 12 3/4% notes due August 1, 
2005, with a sinking fund to begin in 1991.

     The managing underwriters, Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette 
Securities Corporation, represented by Bill Fisher, and Chiles, 
Heider & Company, Inc., represented by Charlie Heider, did an 
absolutely first-class job from start to finish of the financing.

     Unlike most businesses, Berkshire did not finance because of 
any specific immediate needs.  Rather, we borrowed because we 
think that, over a period far shorter than the life of the loan, 
we will have many opportunities to put the money to good use.  
The most attractive opportunities may present themselves at a 
time when credit is extremely expensive - or even unavailable.  
At such a time we want to have plenty of financial firepower.

     Our acquisition preferences run toward businesses that 
generate cash, not those that consume it.  As inflation 
intensifies, more and more companies find that they must spend 
all funds they generate internally just to maintain their 
existing physical volume of business.  There is a certain mirage-
like quality to such operations.  However attractive the earnings 
numbers, we remain leery of businesses that never seem able to 
convert such pretty numbers into no-strings-attached cash.

     Businesses meeting our standards are not easy to find. (Each 
year we read of hundreds of corporate acquisitions; only a 
handful would have been of interest to us.) And logical expansion 
of our present operations is not easy to implement.  But we’ll 
continue to utilize both avenues in our attempts to further 
Berkshire’s growth.

     Under all circumstances we plan to operate with plenty of 
liquidity, with debt that is moderate in size and properly 
structured, and with an abundance of capital strength.  Our 
return on equity is penalized somewhat by this conservative 
approach, but it is the only one with which we feel comfortable.


               *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *                


     Gene Abegg, founder of our long-owned bank in Rockford, died 
on July 2, 1980 at the age of 82.  As a friend, banker and 
citizen, he was unsurpassed.

     You learn a great deal about a person when you purchase a 
business from him and he then stays on to run it as an employee 
rather than as an owner.  Before the purchase the seller knows 
the business intimately, whereas you start from scratch.  The 
seller has dozens of opportunities to mislead the buyer - through 
omissions, ambiguities, and misdirection.  After the check has 
changed hands, subtle (and not so subtle) changes of attitude can 
occur and implicit understandings can evaporate.  As in the 
courtship-marriage sequence, disappointments are not infrequent.

     From the time we first met, Gene shot straight 100% of the 
time - the only behavior pattern he had within him.  At the 
outset of negotiations, he laid all negative factors face up on 
the table; on the other hand, for years after the transaction was 
completed he would tell me periodically of some previously 
undiscussed items of value that had come with our purchase.

     Though he was already 71 years of age when he sold us the 
Bank, Gene subsequently worked harder for us than he had for 
himself.  He never delayed reporting a problem for a minute, but 
problems were few with Gene.  What else would you expect from a 
man who, at the time of the bank holiday in 1933, had enough cash 
on the premises to pay all depositors in full?  Gene never forgot 
he was handling other people’s money.  Though this fiduciary 
attitude was always dominant, his superb managerial skills 
enabled the Bank to regularly achieve the top position nationally 
in profitability.

     Gene was in charge of the Illinois National for close to 
fifty years - almost one-quarter of the lifetime of our country.  
George Mead, a wealthy industrialist, brought him in from Chicago 
to open a new bank after a number of other banks in Rockford had 
failed.  Mr. Mead put up the money and Gene ran the show.  His 
talent for leadership soon put its stamp on virtually every major 
civic activity in Rockford.

     Dozens of Rockford citizens have told me over the years of 
help Gene extended to them.  In some cases this help was 
financial; in all cases it involved much wisdom, empathy and 
friendship.  He always offered the same to me.  Because of our 
respective ages and positions I was sometimes the junior partner, 
sometimes the senior.  Whichever the relationship, it always was 
a special one, and I miss it.


                                          Warren E. Buffett
February 27, 1981                         Chairman of the Board








Chairman's Letter - 1981



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.


                                               February 26, 1982



To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:

     Operating earnings of $39.7 million in 1981 amounted to 
15.2% of beginning equity capital (valuing securities at cost) 
compared to 17.8% in 1980.  Our new plan that allows stockholders 
to designate corporate charitable contributions (detailed later) 
reduced earnings by about $900,000 in 1981.  This program, which 
we expect to continue subject to annual evaluation of our 
corporate tax position, had not been initiated in 1980.


Non-Controlled Ownership Earnings

     In the 1980 annual report we discussed extensively the 
concept of non-controlled ownership earnings, i.e., Berkshire’s 
share of the undistributed earnings of companies we don’t control 
or significantly influence but in which we, nevertheless, have 
important investments. (We will be glad to make available to new 
or prospective shareholders copies of that discussion or others 
from earlier reports to which we refer in this report.) No 
portion of those undistributed earnings is included in the 
operating earnings of Berkshire.

     However, our belief is that, in aggregate, those 
undistributed and, therefore, unrecorded earnings will be 
translated into tangible value for Berkshire shareholders just as 
surely as if subsidiaries we control had earned, retained - and 
reported - similar earnings.

     We know that this translation of non-controlled ownership 
earnings into corresponding realized and unrealized capital gains 
for Berkshire will be extremely irregular as to time of 
occurrence.  While market values track business values quite well 
over long periods, in any given year the relationship can gyrate 
capriciously.  Market recognition of retained earnings also will 
be unevenly realized among companies.  It will be disappointingly 
low or negative in cases where earnings are employed non-
productively, and far greater than dollar-for-dollar of retained 
earnings in cases of companies that achieve high returns with 
their augmented capital.  Overall, if a group of non-controlled 
companies is selected with reasonable skill, the group result 
should be quite satisfactory.

     In aggregate, our non-controlled business interests have 
more favorable underlying economic characteristics than our 
controlled businesses.  That’s understandable; the area of choice 
has been far wider.  Small portions of exceptionally good 
businesses are usually available in the securities markets at 
reasonable prices.  But such businesses are available for 
purchase in their entirety only rarely, and then almost always at 
high prices.


General Acquisition Behavior

     As our history indicates, we are comfortable both with total 
ownership of businesses and with marketable securities 
representing small portions of businesses.  We continually look 
for ways to employ large sums in each area. (But we try to avoid 
small commitments - “If something’s not worth doing at all, it’s 
not worth doing well”.) Indeed, the liquidity requirements of our 
insurance and trading stamp businesses mandate major investments 
in marketable securities.

     Our acquisition decisions will be aimed at maximizing real 
economic benefits, not at maximizing either managerial domain or 
reported numbers for accounting purposes. (In the long run, 
managements stressing accounting appearance over economic 
substance usually achieve little of either.)

     Regardless of the impact upon immediately reportable 
earnings, we would rather buy 10% of Wonderful Business T at X 
per share than 100% of T at 2X per share.  Most corporate 
managers prefer just the reverse, and have no shortage of stated 
rationales for their behavior.

     However, we suspect three motivations - usually unspoken - 
to be, singly or in combination, the important ones in most high-
premium takeovers:

     (1) Leaders, business or otherwise, seldom are deficient in 
         animal spirits and often relish increased activity and 
         challenge.  At Berkshire, the corporate pulse never 
         beats faster than when an acquisition is in prospect.

     (2) Most organizations, business or otherwise, measure 
         themselves, are measured by others, and compensate their 
         managers far more by the yardstick of size than by any 
         other yardstick. (Ask a Fortune 500 manager where his 
         corporation stands on that famous list and, invariably, 
         the number responded will be from the list ranked by 
         size of sales; he may well not even know where his 
         corporation places on the list Fortune just as 
         faithfully compiles ranking the same 500 corporations by 
         profitability.)

     (3) Many managements apparently were overexposed in 
         impressionable childhood years to the story in which the 
         imprisoned handsome prince is released from a toad’s 
         body by a kiss from a beautiful princess.  Consequently, 
         they are certain their managerial kiss will do wonders 
         for the profitability of Company T(arget).

            Such optimism is essential.  Absent that rosy view, 
         why else should the shareholders of Company A(cquisitor) 
         want to own an interest in T at the 2X takeover cost 
         rather than at the X market price they would pay if they 
         made direct purchases on their own?

            In other words, investors can always buy toads at the 
         going price for toads.  If investors instead bankroll 
         princesses who wish to pay double for the right to kiss 
         the toad, those kisses had better pack some real 
         dynamite.  We’ve observed many kisses but very few 
         miracles.  Nevertheless, many managerial princesses 
         remain serenely confident about the future potency of 
         their kisses - even after their corporate backyards are 
         knee-deep in unresponsive toads.

     In fairness, we should acknowledge that some acquisition 
records have been dazzling.  Two major categories stand out.

     The first involves companies that, through design or 
accident, have purchased only businesses that are particularly 
well adapted to an inflationary environment.  Such favored 
business must have two characteristics: (1) an ability to 
increase prices rather easily (even when product demand is flat 
and capacity is not fully utilized) without fear of significant 
loss of either market share or unit volume, and (2) an ability to 
accommodate large dollar volume increases in business (often 
produced more by inflation than by real growth) with only minor 
additional investment of capital.  Managers of ordinary ability, 
focusing solely on acquisition possibilities meeting these tests, 
have achieved excellent results in recent decades.  However, very 
few enterprises possess both characteristics, and competition to 
buy those that do has now become fierce to the point of being 
self-defeating.

     The second category involves the managerial superstars - men 
who can recognize that rare prince who is disguised as a toad, 
and who have managerial abilities that enable them to peel away 
the disguise.  We salute such managers as Ben Heineman at 
Northwest Industries, Henry Singleton at Teledyne, Erwin Zaban at 
National Service Industries, and especially Tom Murphy at Capital 
Cities Communications (a real managerial “twofer”, whose 
acquisition efforts have been properly focused in Category 1 and 
whose operating talents also make him a leader of Category 2).  
From both direct and vicarious experience, we recognize the 
difficulty and rarity of these executives’ achievements. (So do 
they; these champs have made very few deals in recent years, and 
often have found repurchase of their own shares to be the most 
sensible employment of corporate capital.)

     Your Chairman, unfortunately, does not qualify for Category 
2.  And, despite a reasonably good understanding of the economic 
factors compelling concentration in Category 1, our actual 
acquisition activity in that category has been sporadic and 
inadequate.  Our preaching was better than our performance. (We 
neglected the Noah principle: predicting rain doesn’t count, 
building arks does.)

     We have tried occasionally to buy toads at bargain prices 
with results that have been chronicled in past reports.  Clearly 
our kisses fell flat.  We have done well with a couple of princes 
- but they were princes when purchased.  At least our kisses 
didn’t turn them into toads.  And, finally, we have occasionally 
been quite successful in purchasing fractional interests in 
easily-identifiable princes at toad-like prices.


Berkshire Acquisition Objectives

     We will continue to seek the acquisition of businesses in 
their entirety at prices that will make sense, even should the 
future of the acquired enterprise develop much along the lines of 
its past.  We may very well pay a fairly fancy price for a 
Category 1 business if we are reasonably confident of what we are 
getting.  But we will not normally pay a lot in any purchase for 
what we are supposed to bring to the party - for we find that we 
ordinarily don’t bring a lot.

     During 1981 we came quite close to a major purchase 
involving both a business and a manager we liked very much.  
However, the price finally demanded, considering alternative uses 
for the funds involved, would have left our owners worse off than 
before the purchase.  The empire would have been larger, but the 
citizenry would have been poorer.

     Although we had no success in 1981, from time to time in the 
future we will be able to purchase 100% of businesses meeting our 
standards.  Additionally, we expect an occasional offering of a 
major “non-voting partnership” as discussed under the Pinkerton’s 
heading on page 47 of this report.  We welcome suggestions 
regarding such companies where we, as a substantial junior 
partner, can achieve good economic results while furthering the 
long-term objectives of present owners and managers.

     Currently, we find values most easily obtained through the 
open-market purchase of fractional positions in companies with 
excellent business franchises and competent, honest managements.  
We never expect to run these companies, but we do expect to 
profit from them.

     We expect that undistributed earnings from such companies 
will produce full value (subject to tax when realized) for 
Berkshire and its shareholders.  If they don’t, we have made 
mistakes as to either: (1) the management we have elected to 
join; (2) the future economics of the business; or (3) the price 
we have paid.

     We have made plenty of such mistakes - both in the purchase 
of non-controlling and controlling interests in businesses.  
Category (2) miscalculations are the most common.  Of course, it 
is necessary to dig deep into our history to find illustrations 
of such mistakes - sometimes as deep as two or three months back.  
For example, last year your Chairman volunteered his expert 
opinion on the rosy future of the aluminum business.  Several 
minor adjustments to that opinion - now aggregating approximately 
180 degrees - have since been required.

     For personal as well as more objective reasons, however, we 
generally have been able to correct such mistakes far more 
quickly in the case of non-controlled businesses (marketable 
securities) than in the case of controlled subsidiaries.  Lack of 
control, in effect, often has turned out to be an economic plus.

     As we mentioned last year, the magnitude of our non-recorded 
“ownership” earnings has grown to the point where their total is 
greater than our reported operating earnings.  We expect this 
situation will continue.  In just four ownership positions in 
this category - GEICO Corporation, General Foods Corporation, R. 
J. Reynolds Industries, Inc. and The Washington Post Company - 
our share of undistributed and therefore unrecorded earnings 
probably will total well over $35 million in 1982.  The 
accounting rules that entirely ignore these undistributed 
earnings diminish the utility of our annual return on equity 
calculation, or any other single year measure of economic 
performance.


Long-Term Corporate Performance

     In measuring long-term economic performance, equities held 
by our insurance subsidiaries are valued at market subject to a 
charge reflecting the amount of taxes that would have to be paid 
if unrealized gains were actually realized.  If we are correct in 
the premise stressed in the preceding section of this report, our 
unreported ownership earnings will find their way, irregularly 
but inevitably, into our net worth.  To date, this has been the 
case.

     An even purer calculation of performance would involve a 
valuation of bonds and non-insurance held equities at market.  
However, GAAP accounting does not prescribe this procedure, and 
the added purity would change results only very slightly.  Should 
any valuation difference widen to significant proportions, as it 
has at most major insurance companies, we will report its effect 
to you.

     On a GAAP basis, during the present management’s term of 
seventeen years, book value has increased from $19.46 per share 
to $526.02 per share, or 21.1% compounded annually.  This rate of 
return number is highly likely to drift downward in future years.  
We hope, however, that it can be maintained significantly above 
the rate of return achieved by the average large American 
corporation.

     Over half of the large gain in Berkshire’s net worth during 
1981 - it totaled $124 million, or about 31% - resulted from the 
market performance of a single investment, GEICO Corporation.  In 
aggregate, our market gain from securities during the year 
considerably outstripped the gain in underlying business values.  
Such market variations will not always be on the pleasant side.

     In past reports we have explained how inflation has caused 
our apparently satisfactory long-term corporate performance to be 
illusory as a measure of true investment results for our owners.  
We applaud the efforts of Federal Reserve Chairman Volcker and 
note the currently more moderate increases in various price 
indices.  Nevertheless, our views regarding long-term 
inflationary trends are as negative as ever.  Like virginity, a 
stable price level seems capable of maintenance, but not of 
restoration.

     Despite the overriding importance of inflation in the 
investment equation, we will not punish you further with another 
full recital of our views; inflation itself will be punishment 
enough. (Copies of previous discussions are available for 
masochists.) But, because of the unrelenting destruction of 
currency values, our corporate efforts will continue to do a much 
better job of filling your wallet than of filling your stomach.


Equity Value-Added

     An additional factor should further subdue any residual 
enthusiasm you may retain regarding our long-term rate of return.  
The economic case justifying equity investment is that, in 
aggregate, additional earnings above passive investment returns - 
interest on fixed-income securities - will be derived through the 
employment of managerial and entrepreneurial skills in 
conjunction with that equity capital.  Furthermore, the case says 
that since the equity capital position is associated with greater 
risk than passive forms of investment, it is “entitled” to higher 
returns.  A “value-added” bonus from equity capital seems natural 
and certain.

     But is it?  Several decades back, a return on equity of as 
little as 10% enabled a corporation to be classified as a “good” 
business - i.e., one in which a dollar reinvested in the business 
logically could be expected to be valued by the market at more 
than one hundred cents.  For, with long-term taxable bonds 
yielding 5% and long-term tax-exempt bonds 3%, a business 
operation that could utilize equity capital at 10% clearly was 
worth some premium to investors over the equity capital employed.  
That was true even though a combination of taxes on dividends and 
on capital gains would reduce the 10% earned by the corporation 
to perhaps 6%-8% in the hands of the individual investor.

     Investment markets recognized this truth.  During that 
earlier period, American business earned an average of 11% or so 
on equity capital employed and stocks, in aggregate, sold at 
valuations far above that equity capital (book value), averaging 
over 150 cents on the dollar.  Most businesses were “good” 
businesses because they earned far more than their keep (the 
return on long-term passive money).  The value-added produced by 
equity investment, in aggregate, was substantial.

     That day is gone.  But the lessons learned during its 
existence are difficult to discard.  While investors and managers 
must place their feet in the future, their memories and nervous 
systems often remain plugged into the past.  It is much easier 
for investors to utilize historic p/e ratios or for managers to 
utilize historic business valuation yardsticks than it is for 
either group to rethink their premises daily.  When change is 
slow, constant rethinking is actually undesirable; it achieves 
little and slows response time.  But when change is great, 
yesterday’s assumptions can be retained only at great cost.  And 
the pace of economic change has become breathtaking.

     During the past year, long-term taxable bond yields exceeded 
16% and long-term tax-exempts 14%.  The total return achieved 
from such tax-exempts, of course, goes directly into the pocket 
of the individual owner.  Meanwhile, American business is 
producing earnings of only about 14% on equity.  And this 14% 
will be substantially reduced by taxation before it can be banked 
by the individual owner.  The extent of such shrinkage depends 
upon the dividend policy of the corporation and the tax rates 
applicable to the investor.

     Thus, with interest rates on passive investments at late 
1981 levels, a typical American business is no longer worth one 
hundred cents on the dollar to owners who are individuals. (If 
the business is owned by pension funds or other tax-exempt 
investors, the arithmetic, although still unenticing, changes 
substantially for the better.) Assume an investor in a 50% tax 
bracket; if our typical company pays out all earnings, the income 
return to the investor will be equivalent to that from a 7% tax-
exempt bond.  And, if conditions persist - if all earnings are 
paid out and return on equity stays at 14% - the 7% tax-exempt 
equivalent to the higher-bracket individual investor is just as 
frozen as is the coupon on a tax-exempt bond.  Such a perpetual 
7% tax-exempt bond might be worth fifty cents on the dollar as 
this is written.

     If, on the other hand, all earnings of our typical American 
business are retained and return on equity again remains 
constant, earnings will grow at 14% per year.  If the p/e ratio 
remains constant, the price of our typical stock will also grow 
at 14% per year.  But that 14% is not yet in the pocket of the 
shareholder.  Putting it there will require the payment of a 
capital gains tax, presently assessed at a maximum rate of 20%.  
This net return, of course, works out to a poorer rate of return 
than the currently available passive after-tax rate.

     Unless passive rates fall, companies achieving 14% per year 
gains in earnings per share while paying no cash dividend are an 
economic failure for their individual shareholders.  The returns 
from passive capital outstrip the returns from active capital.  
This is an unpleasant fact for both investors and corporate 
managers and, therefore, one they may wish to ignore.  But facts 
do not cease to exist, either because they are unpleasant or 
because they are ignored.

     Most American businesses pay out a significant portion of 
their earnings and thus fall between the two examples.  And most 
American businesses are currently “bad” businesses economically - 
producing less for their individual investors after-tax than the 
tax-exempt passive rate of return on money.  Of course, some 
high-return businesses still remain attractive, even under 
present conditions.  But American equity capital, in aggregate, 
produces no value-added for individual investors.

     It should be stressed that this depressing situation does 
not occur because corporations are jumping, economically, less 
high than previously.  In fact, they are jumping somewhat higher: 
return on equity has improved a few points in the past decade.  
But the crossbar of passive return has been elevated much faster.  
Unhappily, most companies can do little but hope that the bar 
will be lowered significantly; there are few industries in which 
the prospects seem bright for substantial gains in return on 
equity.

     Inflationary experience and expectations will be major (but 
not the only) factors affecting the height of the crossbar in 
future years.  If the causes of long-term inflation can be 
tempered, passive returns are likely to fall and the intrinsic 
position of American equity capital should significantly improve.  
Many businesses that now must be classified as economically “bad” 
would be restored to the “good” category under such 
circumstances.

     A further, particularly ironic, punishment is inflicted by 
an inflationary environment upon the owners of the “bad” 
business.  To continue operating in its present mode, such a low-
return business usually must retain much of its earnings - no 
matter what penalty such a policy produces for shareholders.

     Reason, of course, would prescribe just the opposite policy.  
An individual, stuck with a 5% bond with many years to run before 
maturity, does not take the coupons from that bond and pay one 
hundred cents on the dollar for more 5% bonds while similar bonds 
are available at, say, forty cents on the dollar.  Instead, he 
takes those coupons from his low-return bond and - if inclined to 
reinvest - looks for the highest return with safety currently 
available.  Good money is not thrown after bad.

     What makes sense for the bondholder makes sense for the 
shareholder.  Logically, a company with historic and prospective 
high returns on equity should retain much or all of its earnings 
so that shareholders can earn premium returns on enhanced 
capital.  Conversely, low returns on corporate equity would 
suggest a very high dividend payout so that owners could direct 
capital toward more attractive areas. (The Scriptures concur.  In 
the parable of the talents, the two high-earning servants are 
rewarded with 100% retention of earnings and encouraged to expand 
their operations.  However, the non-earning third servant is not 
only chastised - “wicked and slothful” - but also is required to 
redirect all of his capital to the top performer.  Matthew 25: 
14-30)

     But inflation takes us through the looking glass into the 
upside-down world of Alice in Wonderland.  When prices 
continuously rise, the “bad” business must retain every nickel 
that it can.  Not because it is attractive as a repository for 
equity capital, but precisely because it is so unattractive, the 
low-return business must follow a high retention policy.  If it 
wishes to continue operating in the future as it has in the past 
- and most entities, including businesses, do - it simply has no 
choice.

     For inflation acts as a gigantic corporate tapeworm.  That 
tapeworm preemptively consumes its requisite daily diet of 
investment dollars regardless of the health of the host organism.  
Whatever the level of reported profits (even if nil), more 
dollars for receivables, inventory and fixed assets are 
continuously required by the business in order to merely match 
the unit volume of the previous year.  The less prosperous the 
enterprise, the greater the proportion of available sustenance 
claimed by the tapeworm.

     Under present conditions, a business earning 8% or 10% on 
equity often has no leftovers for expansion, debt reduction or 
“real” dividends.  The tapeworm of inflation simply cleans the 
plate. (The low-return company’s inability to pay dividends, 
understandably, is often disguised.  Corporate America 
increasingly is turning to dividend reinvestment plans, sometimes 
even embodying a discount arrangement that all but forces 
shareholders to reinvest.  Other companies sell newly issued 
shares to Peter in order to pay dividends to Paul.  Beware of 
“dividends” that can be paid out only if someone promises to 
replace the capital distributed.)

     Berkshire continues to retain its earnings for offensive, 
not defensive or obligatory, reasons.  But in no way are we 
immune from the pressures that escalating passive returns exert 
on equity capital.  We continue to clear the crossbar of after-
tax passive return - but barely.  Our historic 21% return - not 
at all assured for the future - still provides, after the current 
capital gain tax rate (which we expect to rise considerably in 
future years), a modest margin over current after-tax rates on 
passive money.  It would be a bit humiliating to have our 
corporate value-added turn negative.  But it can happen here as 
it has elsewhere, either from events outside anyone’s control or 
from poor relative adaptation on our part.


Sources of Reported Earnings

     The table below shows the sources of Berkshire’s reported 
earnings.  Berkshire owns about 60% of Blue Chip Stamps which, in 
turn, owns 80% of Wesco Financial Corporation.  The table 
displays aggregate operating earnings of the various business 
entities, as well as Berkshire’s share of those earnings.  All of 
the significant gains and losses attributable to unusual sales of 
assets by any of the business entities are aggregated with 
securities transactions in the line near the bottom of the table 
and are not included in operating earnings.

                                                                         Net Earnings
                                   Earnings Before Income Taxes            After Tax
                              --------------------------------------  ------------------
                                    Total          Berkshire Share     Berkshire Share
                              ------------------  ------------------  ------------------
                                1981      1980      1981      1980      1981      1980
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
                                                    (000s omitted)
Operating Earnings:
  Insurance Group:
    Underwriting ............ $  1,478  $  6,738  $  1,478  $  6,737   $   798   $ 3,637
    Net Investment Income ...   38,823    30,939    38,823    30,927    32,401    25,607
  Berkshire-Waumbec Textiles    (2,669)     (508)   (2,669)     (508)   (1,493)      202
  Associated Retail Stores ..    1,763     2,440     1,763     2,440       759     1,169
  See’s Candies .............   21,891    15,475    13,046     9,223     6,289     4,459
  Buffalo Evening News ......   (1,057)   (2,777)     (630)   (1,655)     (276)     (800)
  Blue Chip Stamps - Parent      3,642     7,699     2,171     4,588     2,134     3,060
  Wesco Financial - Parent ..    4,495     2,916     2,145     1,392     1,590     1,044
  Mutual Savings and Loan ...    1,605     5,814       766     2,775     1,536     1,974
  Precision Steel ...........    3,453     2,833     1,648     1,352       841       656
  Interest on Debt ..........  (14,656)  (12,230)  (12,649)   (9,390)   (6,671)   (4,809)
  Other* ....................    1,895     1,698     1,344     1,308     1,513       992
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
  Sub-total - Continuing
     Operations ............. $ 60,663  $ 61,037  $ 47,236  $ 49,189  $ 39,421  $ 37,191
  Illinois National Bank** ..     --       5,324      --       5,200      --       4,731
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Operating Earnings ..........   60,663    66,361    47,236    54,389    39,421    41,922
Sales of securities and
   unusual sales of assets ..   37,801    19,584    33,150    15,757    23,183    11,200
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Total Earnings - all entities $ 98,464  $ 85,945  $ 80,386  $ 70,146  $ 62,604  $ 53,122
                              ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========

 *Amortization of intangibles arising in accounting for 
  purchases of businesses (i.e. See’s, Mutual and Buffalo 
  Evening News) is reflected in the category designated as 
  “Other”.

**Berkshire divested itself of its ownership of the Illinois 
  National Bank on December 31, 1980.

     Blue Chip Stamps and Wesco are public companies with 
reporting requirements of their own.  On pages 38-50 of this 
report we have reproduced the narrative reports of the principal 
executives of both companies, in which they describe 1981 
operations.  A copy of the full annual report of either company 
will be mailed to any Berkshire shareholder upon request to Mr. 
Robert H. Bird for Blue Chip Stamps, 5801 South Eastern Avenue, 
Los Angeles, California 90040, or to Mrs. Jeanne Leach for Wesco 
Financial Corporation, 315 East Colorado Boulevard, Pasadena, 
California 91109.

     As we indicated earlier, undistributed earnings in companies 
we do not control are now fully as important as the reported 
operating earnings detailed in the preceding table.  The 
distributed portion of earnings, of course, finds its way into 
the table primarily through the net investment income segment of 
Insurance Group earnings.

     We show below Berkshire’s proportional holdings in those 
non-controlled businesses for which only distributed earnings 
(dividends) are included in our earnings.

No. of Shares                                            Cost       Market
-------------                                         ----------  ----------
                                                          (000s omitted)
  451,650 (a)  Affiliated Publications, Inc. ........  $  3,297    $ 14,114
  703,634 (a)  Aluminum Company of America ..........    19,359      18,031
  420,441 (a)  Arcata Corporation 
                 (including common equivalents) .....    14,076      15,136
  475,217 (b)  Cleveland-Cliffs Iron Company ........    12,942      14,362 
  441,522 (a)  GATX Corporation .....................    17,147      13,466
2,101,244 (b)  General Foods, Inc. ..................    66,277      66,714
7,200,000 (a)  GEICO Corporation ....................    47,138     199,800
2,015,000 (a)  Handy & Harman .......................    21,825      36,270
  711,180 (a)  Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.       4,531      23,202
  282,500 (a)  Media General ........................     4,545      11,088
  391,400 (a)  Ogilvy & Mather International Inc. ...     3,709      12,329
  370,088 (b)  Pinkerton’s, Inc. ....................    12,144      19,675
1,764,824 (b)  R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc. ......    76,668      83,127
  785,225 (b)  SAFECO Corporation ...................    21,329      31,016
1,868,600 (a)  The Washington Post Company ..........    10,628      58,160
                                                      ----------  ----------
                                                       $335,615    $616,490
All Other Common Stockholdings ......................    16,131      22,739
                                                      ----------  ----------
Total Common Stocks .................................  $351,746    $639,229
                                                      ==========  ==========

(a) All owned by Berkshire or its insurance subsidiaries.
(b) Blue Chip and/or Wesco own shares of these companies.  All 
    numbers represent Berkshire’s net interest in the larger 
    gross holdings of the group.

     Our controlled and non-controlled businesses operate over 
such a wide spectrum of activities that detailed commentary here 
would prove too lengthy.  Much additional financial information 
is included in Management’s Discussion on pages 34-37 and in the 
narrative reports on pages 38-50.  However, our largest area of 
both controlled and non-controlled activity has been, and almost 
certainly will continue to be, the property-casualty insurance 
area, and commentary on important developments in that industry 
is appropriate.


Insurance Industry Conditions

     “Forecasts”, said Sam Goldwyn, “are dangerous, particularly 
those about the future.” (Berkshire shareholders may have reached 
a similar conclusion after rereading our past annual reports 
featuring your Chairman’s prescient analysis of textile 
prospects.)

     There is no danger, however, in forecasting that 1982 will 
be the worst year in recent history for insurance underwriting.  
That result already has been guaranteed by present pricing 
behavior, coupled with the term nature of the insurance contract.

     While many auto policies are priced and sold at six-month 
intervals - and many property policies are sold for a three-year 
term - a weighted average of the duration of all property-
casualty insurance policies probably runs a little under twelve 
months.  And prices for the insurance coverage, of course, are 
frozen for the life of the contract.  Thus, this year’s sales 
contracts (“premium written” in the parlance of the industry) 
determine about one-half of next year’s level of revenue 
(“premiums earned”).  The remaining half will be determined by 
sales contracts written next year that will be about 50% earned 
in that year.  The profitability consequences are automatic: if 
you make a mistake in pricing, you have to live with it for an 
uncomfortable period of time.

     Note in the table below the year-over-year gain in industry-
wide premiums written and the impact that it has on the current 
and following year’s level of underwriting profitability.  The 
result is exactly as you would expect in an inflationary world.  
When the volume gain is well up in double digits, it bodes well 
for profitability trends in the current and following year.  When 
the industry volume gain is small, underwriting experience very 
shortly will get worse, no matter how unsatisfactory the current 
level.

     The Best’s data in the table reflect the experience of 
practically the entire industry, including stock, mutual and 
reciprocal companies.  The combined ratio indicates total 
operating and loss costs as compared to premiums; a ratio below 
100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 100 indicates 
a loss.

                    Yearly Change     Yearly Change      Combined Ratio
                     in Premium         in Premium        after Policy-
                     Written (%)        Earned (%)      holder Dividends
                    -------------     -------------     ----------------
1972 ...............     10.2              10.9               96.2
1973 ...............      8.0               8.8               99.2
1974 ...............      6.2               6.9              105.4
1975 ...............     11.0               9.6              107.9
1976 ...............     21.9              19.4              102.4
1977 ...............     19.8              20.5               97.2
1978 ...............     12.8              14.3               97.5
1979 ...............     10.3              10.4              100.6
1980 ...............      6.0               7.8              103.1
1981 ...............      3.6               4.1              105.7

Source:   Best’s Aggregates and Averages.

     As Pogo would say, “The future isn’t what it used to be.” 
Current pricing practices promise devastating results, 
particularly if the respite from major natural disasters that the 
industry has enjoyed in recent years should end.  For 
underwriting experience has been getting worse in spite of good 
luck, not because of bad luck.  In recent years hurricanes have 
stayed at sea and motorists have reduced their driving.  They 
won’t always be so obliging.

     And, of course the twin inflations, monetary and “social” 
(the tendency of courts and juries to stretch the coverage of 
policies beyond what insurers, relying upon contract terminology 
and precedent, had expected), are unstoppable.  Costs of 
repairing both property and people - and the extent to which 
these repairs are deemed to be the responsibility of the insurer 
- will advance relentlessly.

     Absent any bad luck (catastrophes, increased driving, etc.), 
an immediate industry volume gain of at least 10% per year 
probably is necessary to stabilize the record level of 
underwriting losses that will automatically prevail in mid-1982.  
(Most underwriters expect incurred losses in aggregate to rise at 
least 10% annually; each, of course, counts on getting less than 
his share.) Every percentage point of annual premium growth below 
the 10% equilibrium figure quickens the pace of deterioration.  
Quarterly data in 1981 underscore the conclusion that a terrible 
underwriting picture is worsening at an accelerating rate.

     In the 1980 annual report we discussed the investment 
policies that have destroyed the integrity of many insurers’ 
balance sheets, forcing them to abandon underwriting discipline 
and write business at any price in order to avoid negative cash 
flow.  It was clear that insurers with large holdings of bonds 
valued, for accounting purposes, at nonsensically high prices 
would have little choice but to keep the money revolving by 
selling large numbers of policies at nonsensically low prices.  
Such insurers necessarily fear a major decrease in volume more 
than they fear a major underwriting loss.

     But, unfortunately, all insurers are affected; it’s 
difficult to price much differently than your most threatened 
competitor.  This pressure continues unabated and adds a new 
motivation to the others that drive many insurance managers to 
push for business; worship of size over profitability, and the 
fear that market share surrendered never can be regained.

     Whatever the reasons, we believe it is true that virtually 
no major property-casualty insurer - despite protests by the 
entire industry that rates are inadequate and great selectivity 
should be exercised - has been willing to turn down business to 
the point where cash flow has turned significantly negative.  
Absent such a willingness, prices will remain under severe 
pressure.

     Commentators continue to talk of the underwriting cycle, 
usually implying a regularity of rhythm and a relatively constant 
midpoint of profitability Our own view is different.  We believe 
that very large, although obviously varying, underwriting losses 
will be the norm for the industry, and that the best underwriting 
years in the future decade may appear substandard against the 
average year of the past decade.

     We have no magic formula to insulate our controlled 
insurance companies against this deteriorating future.  Our 
managers, particularly Phil Liesche, Bill Lyons, Roland Miller, 
Floyd Taylor and Milt Thornton, have done a magnificent job of 
swimming against the tide.  We have sacrificed much volume, but 
have maintained a substantial underwriting superiority in 
relation to industry-wide results.  The outlook at Berkshire is 
for continued low volume.  Our financial position offers us 
maximum flexibility, a very rare condition in the property-
casualty insurance industry.  And, at some point, should fear 
ever prevail throughout the industry, our financial strength 
could become an operational asset of immense value.

     We believe that GEICO Corporation, our major non-controlled 
business operating in this field, is, by virtue of its extreme 
and improving operating efficiency, in a considerably more 
protected position than almost any other major insurer.  GEICO is 
a brilliantly run implementation of a very important business 
idea.


Shareholder Designated Contributions

     Our new program enabling shareholders to designate the 
recipients of corporate charitable contributions was greeted with 
extraordinary enthusiasm.  A copy of the letter sent October 14, 
1981 describing this program appears on pages 51-53.  Of 932,206 
shares eligible for participation (shares where the name of the 
actual owner appeared on our stockholder record), 95.6% 
responded.  Even excluding Buffet-related shares, the response 
topped 90%.

     In addition, more than 3% of our shareholders voluntarily 
wrote letters or notes, all but one approving of the program.  
Both the level of participation and of commentary surpass any 
shareholder response we have witnessed, even when such response 
has been intensively solicited by corporate staff and highly paid 
professional proxy organizations.  In contrast, your 
extraordinary level of response occurred without even the nudge 
of a company-provided return envelope.  This self-propelled 
behavior speaks well for the program, and speaks well for our 
shareholders.

     Apparently the owners of our corporation like both 
possessing and exercising the ability to determine where gifts of 
their funds shall be made.  The “father-knows-best” school of 
corporate governance will be surprised to find that none of our 
shareholders sent in a designation sheet with instructions that 
the officers of Berkshire - in their superior wisdom, of course - 
make the decision on charitable funds applicable to his shares.  
Nor did anyone suggest that his share of our charitable funds be 
used to match contributions made by our corporate directors to 
charities of the directors’ choice (a popular, proliferating and 
non-publicized policy at many large corporations).

     All told, $1,783,655 of shareholder-designed contributions 
were distributed to about 675 charities.  In addition, Berkshire 
and subsidiaries continue to make certain contributions pursuant 
to local level decisions made by our operating managers.

     There will be some years, perhaps two or three out of ten, 
when contributions by Berkshire will produce substandard tax 
deductions - or none at all.  In those years we will not effect 
our shareholder designated charitable program.  In all other 
years we expect to inform you about October 10th of the amount 
per share that you may designate.  A reply form will accompany 
the notice, and you will be given about three weeks to respond 
with your designation.  To qualify, your shares must be 
registered in your own name or the name of an owning trust, 
corporation, partnership or estate, if applicable, on our 
stockholder list of September 30th, or the Friday preceding if 
such date falls on a Saturday or Sunday.

     Our only disappointment with this program in 1981 was that 
some of our shareholders, through no fault of their own, missed 
the opportunity to participate.  The Treasury Department ruling 
allowing us to proceed without tax uncertainty was received early 
in October.  The ruling did not cover participation by 
shareholders whose stock was registered in the name of nominees, 
such as brokers, and additionally required that the owners of all 
designating shares make certain assurances to Berkshire.  These 
assurances could not be given us in effective form by nominee 
holders.

     Under these circumstances, we attempted to communicate with 
all of our owners promptly (via the October 14th letter) so that, 
if they wished, they could prepare themselves to participate by 
the November 13th record date.  It was particularly important 
that this information be communicated promptly to stockholders 
whose holdings were in nominee name, since they would not be 
eligible unless they took action to re-register their shares 
before the record date.

     Unfortunately, communication to such non-record shareholders 
could take place only through the nominees.  We therefore 
strongly urged those nominees, mostly brokerage houses, to 
promptly transmit our letter to the real owners.  We explained 
that their failure to do so could deprive such owners of an 
important benefit.

     The results from our urgings would not strengthen the case 
for private ownership of the U.S. Postal Service.  Many of our 
shareholders never heard from their brokers (as some shareholders 
told us after reading news accounts of the program).  Others were 
forwarded our letter too late for action.

     One of the largest brokerage houses claiming to hold stock 
for sixty of its clients (about 4% of our shareholder 
population), apparently transmitted our letter about three weeks 
after receipt - too late for any of the sixty to participate. 
(Such lassitude did not pervade all departments of that firm; it 
billed Berkshire for mailing services within six days of that 
belated and ineffectual action.)

     We recite such horror stories for two reasons: (1) if you 
wish to participate in future designated contribution programs, 
be sure to have your stock registered in your name well before 
September 30th; and (2) even if you don’t care to participate and 
prefer to leave your stock in nominee form, it would be wise to 
have at least one share registered in your own name.  By so 
doing, you can be sure that you will be notified of any important 
corporate news at the same time as all other shareholders.

     The designated-contributions idea, along with many other 
ideas that have turned out well for us, was conceived by Charlie 
Munger, Vice Chairman of Berkshire and Chairman of Blue Chip.  
Irrespective of titles, Charlie and I work as partners in 
managing all controlled companies.  To almost a sinful degree, we 
enjoy our work as managing partners.  And we enjoy having you as 
our financial partners.


                                          Warren E. Buffett
                                          Chairman of the Board








Chairman's Letter - 1982



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.


                                                  March 3, 1983



To the Stockholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:

     Operating earnings of $31.5 million in 1982 amounted to only 
9.8% of beginning equity capital (valuing securities at cost), 
down from 15.2% in 1981 and far below our recent high of 19.4% in 
1978.  This decline largely resulted from:

     (1) a significant deterioration in insurance underwriting 
         results;

     (2) a considerable expansion of equity capital without a 
         corresponding growth in the businesses we operate 
         directly; and

     (3) a continually-enlarging commitment of our resources to 
         investment in partially-owned, nonoperated businesses; 
         accounting rules dictate that a major part of our 
         pro-rata share of earnings from such businesses must be 
         excluded from Berkshire’s reported earnings.

     It was only a few years ago that we told you that the 
operating earnings/equity capital percentage, with proper 
allowance for a few other variables, was the most important 
yardstick of single-year managerial performance.  While we still 
believe this to be the case with the vast majority of companies, 
we believe its utility in our own case has greatly diminished.  
You should be suspicious of such an assertion.  Yardsticks seldom 
are discarded while yielding favorable readings.  But when 
results deteriorate, most managers favor disposition of the 
yardstick rather than disposition of the manager.

     To managers faced with such deterioration, a more flexible 
measurement system often suggests itself: just shoot the arrow of 
business performance into a blank canvas and then carefully draw 
the bullseye around the implanted arrow.  We generally believe in 
pre-set, long-lived and small bullseyes.  However, because of the 
importance of item (3) above, further explained in the following 
section, we believe our abandonment of the operating 
earnings/equity capital bullseye to be warranted.


Non-Reported Ownership Earnings

     The appended financial statements reflect “accounting” 
earnings that generally include our proportionate share of 
earnings from any underlying business in which our ownership is 
at least 20%.  Below the 20% ownership figure, however, only our 
share of dividends paid by the underlying business units is 
included in our accounting numbers; undistributed earnings of 
such less-than-20%-owned businesses are totally ignored.

     There are a few exceptions to this rule; e.g., we own about 
35% of GEICO Corporation but, because we have assigned our voting 
rights, the company is treated for accounting purposes as a less-
than-20% holding.  Thus, dividends received from GEICO in 1982 of 
$3.5 million after tax are the only item included in our 
“accounting”earnings.  An additional $23 million that represents 
our share of GEICO’s undistributed operating earnings for 1982 is 
totally excluded from our reported operating earnings.  If GEICO 
had earned less money in 1982 but had paid an additional $1 
million in dividends, our reported earnings would have been 
larger despite the poorer business results.  Conversely, if GEICO 
had earned an additional $100 million - and retained it all - our 
reported earnings would have been unchanged.  Clearly 
“accounting” earnings can seriously misrepresent economic 
reality.

     We prefer a concept of “economic” earnings that includes all 
undistributed earnings, regardless of ownership percentage.  In 
our view, the value to all owners of the retained earnings of a 
business enterprise is determined by the effectiveness with which 
those earnings are used - and not by the size of one’s ownership 
percentage.  If you have owned .01 of 1% of Berkshire during the 
past decade, you have benefited economically in full measure from 
your share of our retained earnings, no matter what your 
accounting system.  Proportionately, you have done just as well 
as if you had owned the magic 20%.  But if you have owned 100% of 
a great many capital-intensive businesses during the decade, 
retained earnings that were credited fully and with painstaking 
precision to you under standard accounting methods have resulted 
in minor or zero economic value.  This is not a criticism of 
accounting procedures.  We would not like to have the job of 
designing a better system.  It’s simply to say that managers and 
investors alike must understand that accounting numbers are the 
beginning, not the end, of business valuation.

     In most corporations, less-than-20% ownership positions are 
unimportant (perhaps, in part, because they prevent maximization 
of cherished reported earnings) and the distinction between 
accounting and economic results we have just discussed matters 
little.  But in our own case, such positions are of very large 
and growing importance.  Their magnitude, we believe, is what 
makes our reported operating earnings figure of limited 
significance.

     In our 1981 annual report we predicted that our share of 
undistributed earnings from four of our major non-controlled 
holdings would aggregate over $35 million in 1982.  With no 
change in our holdings of three of these companies - GEICO, 
General Foods and The Washington Post - and a considerable 
increase in our ownership of the fourth, R. J. Reynolds 
Industries, our share of undistributed 1982 operating earnings of 
this group came to well over $40 million.  This number - not 
reflected at all in our earnings - is greater than our total 
reported earnings, which include only the $14 million in 
dividends received from these companies.  And, of course, we have 
a number of smaller ownership interests that, in aggregate, had 
substantial additional undistributed earnings.

      We attach real significance to the general magnitude of 
these numbers, but we don’t believe they should be carried to ten 
decimal places.  Realization by Berkshire of such retained 
earnings through improved market valuations is subject to very 
substantial, but indeterminate, taxation.  And while retained 
earnings over the years, and in the aggregate, have translated 
into at least equal market value for shareholders, the 
translation has been both extraordinarily uneven among companies 
and irregular and unpredictable in timing.

     However, this very unevenness and irregularity offers 
advantages to the value-oriented purchaser of fractional portions 
of businesses.  This investor may select from almost the entire 
array of major American corporations, including many far superior 
to virtually any of the businesses that could be bought in their 
entirety in a negotiated deal.  And fractional-interest purchases 
can be made in an auction market where prices are set by 
participants with behavior patterns that sometimes resemble those 
of an army of manic-depressive lemmings.

     Within this gigantic auction arena, it is our job to select 
businesses with economic characteristics allowing each dollar of 
retained earnings to be translated eventually into at least a 
dollar of market value.  Despite a lot of mistakes, we have so 
far achieved this goal.  In doing so, we have been greatly 
assisted by Arthur Okun’s patron saint for economists - St. 
Offset.  In some cases, that is, retained earnings attributable 
to our ownership position have had insignificant or even negative 
impact on market value, while in other major positions a dollar 
retained by an investee corporation has been translated into two 
or more dollars of market value.  To date, our corporate over-
achievers have more than offset the laggards.  If we can continue 
this record, it will validate our efforts to maximize “economic” 
earnings, regardless of the impact upon “accounting” earnings.

     Satisfactory as our partial-ownership approach has been, 
what really makes us dance is the purchase of 100% of good 
businesses at reasonable prices.  We’ve accomplished this feat a 
few times (and expect to do so again), but it is an 
extraordinarily difficult job - far more difficult than the 
purchase at attractive prices of fractional interests.

     As we look at the major acquisitions that others made during 
1982, our reaction is not envy, but relief that we were non-
participants.  For in many of these acquisitions, managerial 
intellect wilted in competition with managerial adrenaline The 
thrill of the chase blinded the pursuers to the consequences of 
the catch.  Pascal’s observation seems apt: “It has struck me 
that all men’s misfortunes spring from the single cause that they 
are unable to stay quietly in one room.”

     (Your Chairman left the room once too often last year and 
almost starred in the Acquisition Follies of 1982.  In 
retrospect, our major accomplishment of the year was that a very 
large purchase to which we had firmly committed was unable to be 
completed for reasons totally beyond our control.  Had it come 
off, this transaction would have consumed extraordinary amounts 
of time and energy, all for a most uncertain payoff.  If we were 
to introduce graphics to this report, illustrating favorable 
business developments of the past year, two blank pages depicting 
this blown deal would be the appropriate centerfold.)

     Our partial-ownership approach can be continued soundly only 
as long as portions of attractive businesses can be acquired at 
attractive prices.  We need a moderately-priced stock market to 
assist us in this endeavor.  The market, like the Lord, helps 
those who help themselves.  But, unlike the Lord, the market does 
not forgive those who know not what they do.  For the investor, a 
too-high purchase price for the stock of an excellent company can 
undo the effects of a subsequent decade of favorable business 
developments.

     Should the stock market advance to considerably higher 
levels, our ability to utilize capital effectively in partial-
ownership positions will be reduced or eliminated.  This will 
happen periodically: just ten years ago, at the height of the 
two-tier market mania (with high-return-on-equity businesses bid 
to the sky by institutional investors), Berkshire’s insurance 
subsidiaries owned only $18 million in market value of equities, 
excluding their interest in Blue Chip Stamps.  At that time, such 
equity holdings amounted to about 15% of our insurance company 
investments versus the present 80%.  There were as many good 
businesses around in 1972 as in 1982, but the prices the stock 
market placed upon those businesses in 1972 looked absurd.  While 
high stock prices in the future would make our performance look 
good temporarily, they would hurt our long-term business 
prospects rather than help them.  We currently are seeing early 
traces of this problem.


Long-Term Corporate Performance

     Our gain in net worth during 1982, valuing equities held by 
our insurance subsidiaries at market value (less capital gain 
taxes payable if unrealized gains were actually realized) 
amounted to $208 million.  On a beginning net worth base of $519 
million, the percentage gain was 40%.

     During the 18-year tenure of present management, book value 
has grown from $19.46 per share to $737.43 per share, or 22.0% 
compounded annually.  You can be certain that this percentage 
will diminish in the future.  Geometric progressions eventually 
forge their own anchors.

     Berkshire’s economic goal remains to produce a long-term 
rate of return well above the return achieved by the average 
large American corporation.  Our willingness to purchase either 
partial or total ownership positions in favorably-situated 
businesses, coupled with reasonable discipline about the prices 
we are willing to pay, should give us a good chance of achieving 
our goal.

     Again this year the gain in market valuation of partially-
owned businesses outpaced the gain in underlying economic value 
of those businesses.  For example, $79 million of our $208 
million gain is attributable to an increased market price for 
GEICO.  This company continues to do exceptionally well, and we 
are more impressed than ever by the strength of GEICO’s basic 
business idea and by the management skills of Jack Byrne. 
(Although not found in the catechism of the better business 
schools, “Let Jack Do It” works fine as a corporate creed for 
us.)

     However, GEICO’s increase in market value during the past 
two years has been considerably greater than the gain in its 
intrinsic business value, impressive as the latter has been.  We 
expected such a favorable variation at some point, as the 
perception of investors converged with business reality.  And we 
look forward to substantial future gains in underlying business 
value accompanied by irregular, but eventually full, market 
recognition of such gains.

     Year-to-year variances, however, cannot consistently be in 
our favor.  Even if our partially-owned businesses continue to 
perform well in an economic sense, there will be years when they 
perform poorly in the market.  At such times our net worth could 
shrink significantly.  We will not be distressed by such a 
shrinkage; if the businesses continue to look attractive and we 
have cash available, we simply will add to our holdings at even 
more favorable prices.


Sources of Reported Earnings

     The table below shows the sources of Berkshire’s reported 
earnings.  In 1981 and 1982 Berkshire owned about 60% of Blue 
Chip Stamps which, in turn, owned 80% of Wesco Financial 
Corporation.  The table displays aggregate operating earnings of 
the various business entities, as well as Berkshire’s share of 
those earnings.  All of the significant gains and losses 
attributable to unusual sales of assets by any of the business 
entities are aggregated with securities transactions in the line 
near the bottom of the table, and are not included in operating 
earnings.

                                                                         Net Earnings
                                   Earnings Before Income Taxes            After Tax
                              --------------------------------------  ------------------
                                    Total          Berkshire Share     Berkshire Share
                              ------------------  ------------------  ------------------
                                1982      1981      1982      1981      1982      1981
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
                                                    (000s omitted)
Operating Earnings:
  Insurance Group:
    Underwriting ............ $(21,558)  $ 1,478  $(21,558)  $ 1,478  $(11,345)  $   798
    Net Investment Income ...   41,620    38,823    41,620    38,823    35,270    32,401
  Berkshire-Waumbec Textiles    (1,545)   (2,669)   (1,545)   (2,669)     (862)   (1,493)
  Associated Retail Stores ..      914     1,763       914     1,763       446       759
  See’s Candies .............   23,884    20,961    14,235    12,493     6,914     5,910
  Buffalo Evening News ......   (1,215)   (1,217)     (724)     (725)     (226)     (320)
  Blue Chip Stamps - Parent      4,182     3,642     2,492     2,171     2,472     2,134
  Wesco Financial - Parent ..    6,156     4,495     2,937     2,145     2,210     1,590
  Mutual Savings and Loan ...       (6)    1,605        (2)      766     1,524     1,536
  Precision Steel ...........    1,035     3,453       493     1,648       265       841
  Interest on Debt ..........  (14,996)  (14,656)  (12,977)  (12,649)   (6,951)   (6,671)
  Other* ....................    2,631     2,985     1,857     1,992     1,780     1,936
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Operating Earnings ..........   41,102    60,663    27,742    47,236    31,497    39,421
Sales of securities and
   unusual sales of assets ..   36,651    37,801    21,875    33,150    14,877    23,183
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Total Earnings - all entities $ 77,753  $ 98,464  $ 49,617  $ 80,386  $ 46,374  $ 62,604
                              ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========

* Amortization of intangibles arising in accounting for purchases 
  of businesses (i.e. See’s, Mutual and Buffalo Evening News) is 
  reflected in the category designated as “Other”.

     On pages 45-61 of this report we have reproduced the 
narrative reports of the principal executives of Blue Chip and 
Wesco, in which they describe 1982 operations.  A copy of the 
full annual report of either company will be mailed to any 
Berkshire shareholder upon request to Mr. Robert H. Bird for 
Blue Chip Stamps, 5801 South Eastern Avenue, Los Angeles, 
California 90040, or to Mrs. Jeanne Leach for Wesco Financial 
Corporation, 315 East Colorado Boulevard, Pasadena, California 
91109.

     I believe you will find the Blue Chip chronicle of 
developments in the Buffalo newspaper situation particularly 
interesting.  There are now only 14 cities in the United States 
with a daily newspaper whose weekday circulation exceeds that of 
the Buffalo News.  But the real story has been the growth in 
Sunday circulation.  Six years ago, prior to introduction of a 
Sunday edition of the News, the long-established Courier-Express, 
as the only Sunday newspaper published in Buffalo, had 
circulation of 272,000.  The News now has Sunday circulation of 
367,000, a 35% gain - even though the number of households within 
the primary circulation area has shown little change during the 
six years.  We know of no city in the United States with a long 
history of seven-day newspaper publication in which the 
percentage of households purchasing the Sunday newspaper has 
grown at anything like this rate.  To the contrary, in most 
cities household penetration figures have grown negligibly, or 
not at all.  Our key managers in Buffalo - Henry Urban, Stan 
Lipsey, Murray Light, Clyde Pinson, Dave Perona and Dick Feather 
- deserve great credit for this unmatched expansion in Sunday 
readership.

     As we indicated earlier, undistributed earnings in companies 
we do not control are now fully as important as the reported 
operating earnings detailed in the preceding table.  The 
distributed portion of non-controlled earnings, of course, finds 
its way into that table primarily through the net investment 
income segment of Insurance Group earnings.

     We show below Berkshire’s proportional holdings in those 
non-controlled businesses for which only distributed earnings 
(dividends) are included in our earnings.

No. of Shares
or Share Equiv.                                          Cost       Market  
---------------                                       ----------  ----------
                                                          (000s omitted)
   460,650 (a)   Affiliated Publications, Inc. ......  $  3,516    $ 16,929
   908,800 (c)   Crum & Forster .....................    47,144      48,962	
 2,101,244 (b)   General Foods, Inc. ................    66,277      83,680
 7,200,000 (a)   GEICO Corporation ..................    47,138     309,600
 2,379,200 (a)   Handy & Harman .....................    27,318      46,692
   711,180 (a)   Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.     4,531      34,314
   282,500 (a)   Media General ......................     4,545      12,289
   391,400 (a)   Ogilvy & Mather Int’l. Inc. ........     3,709      17,319
 3,107,675 (b)   R. J. Reynolds Industries ..........   142,343     158,715
 1,531,391 (a)   Time, Inc. .........................    45,273      79,824
 1,868,600 (a)   The Washington Post Company ........    10,628     103,240
                                                      ----------  ----------
                                                       $402,422    $911,564
                 All Other Common Stockholdings .....    21,611      34,058
                                                      ----------  ----------                                                        
                 Total Common Stocks                   $424,033    $945,622
                                                      ==========  ==========

(a) All owned by Berkshire or its insurance subsidiaries.

(b) Blue Chip and/or Wesco own shares of these companies.  All 
    numbers represent Berkshire’s net interest in the larger 
    gross holdings of the group.

(c) Temporary holding as cash substitute.

     In case you haven’t noticed, there is an important 
investment lesson to be derived from this table: nostalgia should 
be weighted heavily in stock selection.  Our two largest 
unrealized gains are in Washington Post and GEICO, companies with 
which your Chairman formed his first commercial connections at 
the ages of 13 and 20, respectively After straying for roughly 25 
years, we returned as investors in the mid-1970s.  The table 
quantifies the rewards for even long-delayed corporate fidelity. 

     Our controlled and non-controlled businesses operate over 
such a wide spectrum that detailed commentary here would prove 
too lengthy.  Much financial and operational information 
regarding the controlled businesses is included in Management’s 
Discussion on pages 34-39, and in the narrative reports on pages 
45-61.  However, our largest area of business activity has been, 
and almost certainly will continue to be, the property-casualty 
insurance area.  So commentary on developments in that industry 
is appropriate.


Insurance Industry Conditions

     We show below an updated table of the industry statistics we 
utilized in last year’s annual report.  Its message is clear: 
underwriting results in 1983 will not be a sight for the 
squeamish.

                      Yearly Change     Yearly Change      Combined Ratio
                       in Premiums       in Premiums        after Policy-
                       Written (%)        Earned (%)      holder Dividends
                      -------------     -------------     ----------------
1972 ................     10.2              10.9                96.2
1973 ................      8.0               8.8                99.2
1974 ................      6.2               6.9               105.4
1975 ................     11.0               9.6               107.9
1976 ................     21.9              19.4               102.4
1977 ................     19.8              20.5                97.2
1978 ................     12.8              14.3                97.5
1979 ................     10.3              10.4               100.6
1980 ................      6.0               7.8               103.1
1981 (Rev.) .........      3.9               4.1               106.0
1982 (Est.) .........      5.1               4.6               109.5

Source:   Best’s Aggregates and Averages.

     The Best’s data reflect the experience of practically the 
entire industry, including stock, mutual and reciprocal 
companies.  The combined ratio represents total operating and 
loss costs as compared to revenue from premiums; a ratio below 
100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 100 indicates 
a loss.

     For reasons outlined in last year’s report, as long as the 
annual gain in industry premiums written falls well below 10%, 
you can expect the underwriting picture in the next year to 
deteriorate.  This will be true even at today’s lower general 
rate of inflation.  With the number of policies increasing 
annually, medical inflation far exceeding general inflation, and 
concepts of insured liability broadening, it is highly unlikely 
that yearly increases in insured losses will fall much below 10%.  

     You should be further aware that the 1982 combined ratio of 
109.5 represents a “best case” estimate.  In a given year, it is 
possible for an insurer to show almost any profit number it 
wishes, particularly if it (1) writes “long-tail” business 
(coverage where current costs can be only estimated, because 
claim payments are long delayed), (2) has been adequately 
reserved in the past, or (3)	is growing very rapidly.  There are 
indications that several large insurers opted in 1982 for obscure 
accounting and reserving maneuvers that masked significant 
deterioration in their underlying businesses.  In insurance, as 
elsewhere, the reaction of weak managements to weak operations is 
often weak accounting. (“It’s difficult for an empty sack to 
stand upright.”)

     The great majority of managements, however, try to play it 
straight.  But even managements of integrity may subconsciously 
be less willing in poor profit years to fully recognize adverse 
loss trends.  Industry statistics indicate some deterioration in 
loss reserving practices during 1982 and the true combined ratio 
is likely to be modestly worse than indicated by our table.

     The conventional wisdom is that 1983 or 1984 will see the 
worst of underwriting experience and then, as in the past, the 
“cycle” will move, significantly and steadily, toward better 
results.  We disagree because of a pronounced change in the 
competitive environment, hard to see for many years but now quite 
visible.

     To understand the change, we need to look at some major 
factors that affect levels of corporate profitability generally.  
Businesses in industries with both substantial over-capacity and 
a “commodity” product (undifferentiated in any customer-important 
way by factors such as performance, appearance, service support, 
etc.) are prime candidates for profit troubles.  These may be 
escaped, true, if prices or costs are administered in some manner 
and thereby insulated at least partially from normal market 
forces.  This administration can be carried out (a) legally 
through government intervention (until recently, this category 
included pricing for truckers and deposit costs for financial 
institutions), (b) illegally through collusion, or (c) “extra-
legally” through OPEC-style foreign cartelization (with tag-along 
benefits for domestic non-cartel operators).

     If, however, costs and prices are determined by full-bore 
competition, there is more than ample capacity, and the buyer 
cares little about whose product or distribution services he 
uses, industry economics are almost certain to be unexciting.  
They may well be disastrous.

     Hence the constant struggle of every vendor to establish and 
emphasize special qualities of product or service.  This works 
with candy bars (customers buy by brand name, not by asking for a 
“two-ounce candy bar”) but doesn’t work with sugar (how often do 
you hear, “I’ll have a cup of coffee with cream and C & H sugar, 
please”).

     In many industries, differentiation simply can’t be made 
meaningful.  A few producers in such industries may consistently 
do well if they have a cost advantage that is both wide and 
sustainable.  By definition such exceptions are few, and, in many 
industries, are non-existent.  For the great majority of 
companies selling “commodity”products, a depressing equation of 
business economics prevails: persistent over-capacity without 
administered prices (or costs) equals poor profitability.

     Of course, over-capacity may eventually self-correct, either 
as capacity shrinks or demand expands.  Unfortunately for the 
participants, such corrections often are long delayed.  When they 
finally occur, the rebound to prosperity frequently produces a 
pervasive enthusiasm for expansion that, within a few years, 
again creates over-capacity and a new profitless environment.  In 
other words, nothing fails like success.

     What finally determines levels of long-term profitability in 
such industries is the ratio of supply-tight to supply-ample 
years.  Frequently that ratio is dismal. (It seems as if the most 
recent supply-tight period in our textile business - it occurred 
some years back - lasted the better part of a morning.)

     In some industries, however, capacity-tight conditions can 
last a long time.  Sometimes actual growth in demand will outrun 
forecasted growth for an extended period.  In other cases, adding 
capacity requires very long lead times because complicated 
manufacturing facilities must be planned and built.

     But in the insurance business, to return to that subject, 
capacity can be instantly created by capital plus an 
underwriter’s willingness to sign his name. (Even capital is less 
important in a world in which state-sponsored guaranty funds 
protect many policyholders against insurer insolvency.) Under 
almost all conditions except that of fear for survival - 
produced, perhaps, by a stock market debacle or a truly major 
natural disaster - the insurance industry operates under the 
competitive sword of substantial overcapacity.  Generally, also, 
despite heroic attempts to do otherwise, the industry sells a 
relatively undifferentiated commodity-type product. (Many 
insureds, including the managers of large businesses, do not even 
know the names of their insurers.) Insurance, therefore, would 
seem to be a textbook case of an industry usually faced with the 
deadly combination of excess capacity and a “commodity” product.

     Why, then, was underwriting, despite the existence of 
cycles, generally profitable over many decades? (From 1950 
through 1970, the industry combined ratio averaged 99.0.  
allowing all investment income plus 1% of premiums to flow 
through to profits.) The answer lies primarily in the historic 
methods of regulation and distribution.  For much of this 
century, a large portion of the industry worked, in effect, 
within a legal quasi-administered pricing system fostered by 
insurance regulators.  While price competition existed, it was 
not pervasive among the larger companies.  The main competition 
was for agents, who were courted via various non-price-related 
strategies.

     For the giants of the industry, most rates were set through 
negotiations between industry “bureaus” (or through companies 
acting in accord with their recommendations) and state 
regulators.  Dignified haggling occurred, but it was between 
company and regulator rather than between company and customer.  
When the dust settled, Giant A charged the same price as Giant B 
- and both companies and agents were prohibited by law from 
cutting such filed rates.

     The company-state negotiated prices included specific profit 
allowances and, when loss data indicated that current prices were 
unprofitable, both company managements and state regulators 
expected that they would act together to correct the situation.  
Thus, most of the pricing actions of the giants of the industry 
were “gentlemanly”, predictable, and profit-producing.  Of prime 
importance - and in contrast to the way most of the business 
world operated - insurance companies could legally price their 
way to profitability even in the face of substantial over-
capacity.

     That day is gone.  Although parts of the old structure 
remain, far more than enough new capacity exists outside of that 
structure to force all parties, old and new, to respond.  The new 
capacity uses various methods of distribution and is not 
reluctant to use price as a prime competitive weapon.  Indeed, it 
relishes that use.  In the process, customers have learned that 
insurance is no longer a one-price business.  They won’t forget.

     Future profitability of the industry will be determined by 
current competitive characteristics, not past ones.  Many 
managers have been slow to recognize this.  It’s not only 
generals that prefer to fight the last war.  Most business and 
investment analysis also comes from the rear-view mirror.  It 
seems clear to us, however, that only one condition will allow 
the insurance industry to achieve significantly improved 
underwriting results.  That is the same condition that will allow 
better results for the aluminum, copper, or corn producer - a 
major narrowing of the gap between demand and supply.

     Unfortunately, there can be no surge in demand for insurance 
policies comparable to one that might produce a market tightness 
in copper or aluminum.  Rather, the supply of available insurance 
coverage must be curtailed.  “Supply”, in this context, is mental 
rather than physical: plants or companies need not be shut; only 
the willingness of underwriters to sign their names need be 
curtailed.

     This contraction will not happen because of generally poor 
profit levels.  Bad profits produce much hand-wringing and 
finger-pointing.  But they do not lead major sources of insurance 
capacity to turn their backs on very large chunks of business, 
thereby sacrificing market share and industry significance.

     Instead, major capacity withdrawals require a shock factor 
such as a natural or financial “megadisaster”.  One might occur 
tomorrow - or many years from now.  The insurance business - even 
taking investment income into account - will not be particularly 
profitable in the meantime.

     When supply ultimately contracts, large amounts of business 
will be available for the few with large capital capacity, a 
willingness to commit it, and an in-place distribution system.  
We would expect great opportunities for our insurance 
subsidiaries at such a time.

     During 1982, our insurance underwriting deteriorated far 
more than did the industry’s.  From a profit position well above 
average, we, slipped to a performance modestly below average.  
The biggest swing was in National Indemnity’s traditional 
coverages.  Lines that have been highly profitable for us in the 
past are now priced at levels that guarantee underwriting losses.  
In 1983 we expect our insurance group to record an average 
performance in an industry in which average is very poor.

     Two of our stars, Milt Thornton at Cypress and Floyd Taylor 
at Kansas Fire and Casualty, continued their outstanding records 
of producing an underwriting profit every year since joining us.  
Both Milt and Floyd simply are incapable of being average.  They 
maintain a passionately proprietary attitude toward their 
operations and have developed a business culture centered upon 
unusual cost-consciousness and customer service.  It shows on 
their scorecards.

     During 1982, parent company responsibility for most of our 
insurance operations was given to Mike Goldberg.  Planning, 
recruitment, and monitoring all have shown significant 
improvement since Mike replaced me in this role.

     GEICO continues to be managed with a zeal for efficiency and 
value to the customer that virtually guarantees unusual success.  
Jack Byrne and Bill Snyder are achieving the most elusive of 
human goals - keeping things simple and remembering what you set 
out to do.  In Lou Simpson, additionally, GEICO has the best 
investment manager in the property-casualty business.  We are 
happy with every aspect of this operation.  GEICO is a 
magnificent illustration of the high-profit exception we 
described earlier in discussing commodity industries with over-
capacity - a company with a wide and sustainable cost advantage.  
Our 35% interest in GEICO represents about $250 million of 
premium volume, an amount considerably greater than all of the 
direct volume we produce.


Issuance of Equity

     Berkshire and Blue Chip are considering merger in 1983.  If 
it takes place, it will involve an exchange of stock based upon 
an identical valuation method applied to both companies.  The one 
other significant issuance of shares by Berkshire or its 
affiliated companies that occurred during present management’s 
tenure was in the 1978 merger of Berkshire with Diversified 
Retailing Company.

     Our share issuances follow a simple basic rule: we will not 
issue shares unless we receive as much intrinsic business value 
as we give.  Such a policy might seem axiomatic.  Why, you might 
ask, would anyone issue dollar bills in exchange for fifty-cent 
pieces?  Unfortunately, many corporate managers have been willing 
to do just that.

     The first choice of these managers in making acquisitions 
may be to use cash or debt.  But frequently the CEO’s cravings 
outpace cash and credit resources (certainly mine always have).  
Frequently, also, these cravings occur when his own stock is 
selling far below intrinsic business value.  This state of 
affairs produces a moment of truth.  At that point, as Yogi Berra 
has said, “You can observe a lot just by watching.” For 
shareholders then will find which objective the management truly 
prefers - expansion of domain or maintenance of owners’ wealth.

     The need to choose between these objectives occurs for some 
simple reasons.  Companies often sell in the stock market below 
their intrinsic business value.  But when a company wishes to 
sell out completely, in a negotiated transaction, it inevitably 
wants to - and usually can - receive full business value in 
whatever kind of currency the value is to be delivered.  If cash 
is to be used in payment, the seller’s calculation of value 
received couldn’t be easier.  If stock of the buyer is to be the 
currency, the seller’s calculation is still relatively easy: just 
figure the market value in cash of what is to be received in 
stock.

     Meanwhile, the buyer wishing to use his own stock as 
currency for the purchase has no problems if the stock is selling 
in the market at full intrinsic value.

     But suppose it is selling at only half intrinsic value.  In 
that case, the buyer is faced with the unhappy prospect of using 
a substantially undervalued currency to make its purchase.

     Ironically, were the buyer to instead be a seller of its 
entire business, it too could negotiate for, and probably get, 
full intrinsic business value.  But when the buyer makes a 
partial sale of itself - and that is what the issuance of shares 
to make an acquisition amounts to - it can customarily get no 
higher value set on its shares than the market chooses to grant 
it.

     The acquirer who nevertheless barges ahead ends up using an 
undervalued (market value) currency to pay for a fully valued 
(negotiated value) property.  In effect, the acquirer must give 
up $2 of value to receive $1 of value.  Under such circumstances, 
a marvelous business purchased at a fair sales price becomes a 
terrible buy.  For gold valued as gold cannot be purchased 
intelligently through the utilization of gold - or even silver - 
valued as lead.

     If, however, the thirst for size and action is strong 
enough, the acquirer’s manager will find ample rationalizations 
for such a value-destroying issuance of stock.  Friendly 
investment bankers will reassure him as to the soundness of his 
actions. (Don’t ask the barber whether you need a haircut.)

     A few favorite rationalizations employed by stock-issuing 
managements follow:

     (a) “The company we’re buying is going to be worth a lot 
         more in the future.” (Presumably so is the interest in 
         the old business that is being traded away; future 
         prospects are implicit in the business valuation 
         process.  If 2X is issued for X, the imbalance still 
         exists when both parts double in business value.)

     (b) “We have to grow.” (Who, it might be asked, is the “we”?  
         For present shareholders, the reality is that all 
         existing businesses shrink when shares are issued.  Were 
         Berkshire to issue shares tomorrow for an acquisition, 
         Berkshire would own everything that it now owns plus the 
         new business, but your interest in such hard-to-match 
         businesses as See’s Candy Shops, National Indemnity, 
         etc. would automatically be reduced.  If (1) your family 
         owns a 120-acre farm and (2)  you invite a neighbor with 
         60 acres of comparable land to merge his farm into an 
         equal partnership - with you to be managing partner, 
         then (3) your managerial domain will have grown to 180 
         acres but you will have permanently shrunk by 25% your 
         family’s ownership interest in both acreage and crops.  
         Managers who want to expand their domain at the expense 
         of owners might better consider a career in government.)

     (c) “Our stock is undervalued and we’ve minimized its use in 
         this deal - but we need to give the selling shareholders 
         51% in stock and 49% in cash so that certain of those 
         shareholders can get the tax-free exchange they want.” 
         (This argument acknowledges that it is beneficial to the 
         acquirer to hold down the issuance of shares, and we like 
         that.  But if it hurts the old owners to utilize shares 
         on a 100% basis, it very likely hurts on a 51% basis.  
         After all, a man is not charmed if a spaniel defaces his 
         lawn, just because it’s a spaniel and not a St. Bernard.  
         And the wishes of sellers can’t be the determinant of the 
         best interests of the buyer - what would happen if, 
         heaven forbid, the seller insisted that as a condition of 
         merger the CEO of the acquirer be replaced?)

     There are three ways to avoid destruction of value for old 
owners when shares are issued for acquisitions.  One is to have a 
true business-value-for-business-value merger, such as the 
Berkshire-Blue Chip combination is intended to be.  Such a merger 
attempts to be fair to shareholders of both parties, with each 
receiving just as much as it gives in terms of intrinsic business 
value.  The Dart Industries-Kraft and Nabisco Standard Brands 
mergers appeared to be of this type, but they are the exceptions.  
It’s not that acquirers wish to avoid such deals; it’s just that 
they are very hard to do.

     The second route presents itself when the acquirer’s stock 
sells at or above its intrinsic business value.  In that 
situation, the use of stock as currency actually may enhance the 
wealth of the acquiring company’s owners.  Many mergers were 
accomplished on this basis in the 1965-69 period.  The results 
were the converse of most of the activity since 1970: the 
shareholders of the acquired company received very inflated 
currency (frequently pumped up by dubious accounting and 
promotional techniques) and were the losers of wealth through 
such transactions.

     During recent years the second solution has been available 
to very few large companies.  The exceptions have primarily been 
those companies in glamorous or promotional businesses to which 
the market temporarily attaches valuations at or above intrinsic 
business valuation.

     The third solution is for the acquirer to go ahead with the 
acquisition, but then subsequently repurchase a quantity of 
shares equal to the number issued in the merger.  In this manner, 
what originally was a stock-for-stock merger can be converted, 
effectively, into a cash-for-stock acquisition.  Repurchases of 
this kind are damage-repair moves.  Regular readers will 
correctly guess that we much prefer repurchases that directly 
enhance the wealth of owners instead of repurchases that merely 
repair previous damage.  Scoring touchdowns is more exhilarating 
than recovering one’s fumbles.  But, when a fumble has occurred, 
recovery is important and we heartily recommend damage-repair 
repurchases that turn a bad stock deal into a fair cash deal.

     The language utilized in mergers tends to confuse the issues 
and encourage irrational actions by managers.  For example, 
“dilution” is usually carefully calculated on a pro forma basis 
for both book value and current earnings per share.  Particular 
emphasis is given to the latter item.  When that calculation is 
negative (dilutive) from the acquiring company’s standpoint, a 
justifying explanation will be made (internally, if not 
elsewhere) that the lines will cross favorably at some point in 
the future. (While deals often fail in practice, they never fail 
in projections - if the CEO is visibly panting over a prospective 
acquisition, subordinates and consultants will supply the 
requisite projections to rationalize any price.) Should the 
calculation produce numbers that are immediately positive - that 
is, anti-dilutive - for the acquirer, no comment is thought to be 
necessary.

     The attention given this form of dilution is overdone: 
current earnings per share (or even earnings per share of the 
next few years) are an important variable in most business 
valuations, but far from all powerful.

     There have been plenty of mergers, non-dilutive in this 
limited sense, that were instantly value destroying for the 
acquirer.  And some mergers that have diluted current and near-
term earnings per share have in fact been value-enhancing.  What 
really counts is whether a merger is dilutive or anti-dilutive in 
terms of intrinsic business value (a judgment involving 
consideration of many variables).  We believe calculation of 
dilution from this viewpoint to be all-important (and too seldom 
made).

     A second language problem relates to the equation of 
exchange.  If Company A announces that it will issue shares to 
merge with Company B, the process is customarily described as 
“Company A to Acquire Company B”, or “B Sells to A”.  Clearer 
thinking about the matter would result if a more awkward but more 
accurate description were used: “Part of A sold to acquire B”, or 
“Owners of B to receive part of A in exchange for their 
properties”.  In a trade, what you are giving is just as 
important as what you are getting.  This remains true even when 
the final tally on what is being given is delayed.  Subsequent 
sales of common stock or convertible issues, either to complete 
the financing for a deal or to restore balance sheet strength, 
must be fully counted in evaluating the fundamental mathematics 
of the original acquisition. (If corporate pregnancy is going to 
be the consequence of corporate mating, the time to face that 
fact is before the moment of ecstasy.)

     Managers and directors might sharpen their thinking by 
asking themselves if they would sell 100% of their business on 
the same basis they are being asked to sell part of it.  And if 
it isn’t smart to sell all on such a basis, they should ask 
themselves why it is smart to sell a portion.  A cumulation of 
small managerial stupidities will produce a major stupidity - not 
a major triumph. (Las Vegas has been built upon the wealth 
transfers that occur when people engage in seemingly-small 
disadvantageous capital transactions.)

     The “giving versus getting” factor can most easily be 
calculated in the case of registered investment companies.  
Assume Investment Company X, selling at 50% of asset value, 
wishes to merge with Investment Company Y.  Assume, also, that 
Company X therefore decides to issue shares equal in market value 
to 100% of Y’s asset value.

     Such a share exchange would leave X trading $2 of its 
previous intrinsic value for $1 of Y’s intrinsic value.  Protests 
would promptly come forth from both X’s shareholders and the SEC, 
which rules on the fairness of registered investment company 
mergers.  Such a transaction simply would not be allowed.

     In the case of manufacturing, service, financial companies, 
etc., values are not normally as precisely calculable as in the 
case of investment companies.  But we have seen mergers in these 
industries that just as dramatically destroyed value for the 
owners of the acquiring company as was the case in the 
hypothetical illustration above.  This destruction could not 
happen if management and directors would assess the fairness of 
any transaction by using the same yardstick in the measurement of 
both businesses.

     Finally, a word should be said about the “double whammy” 
effect upon owners of the acquiring company when value-diluting 
stock issuances occur.  Under such circumstances, the first blow 
is the loss of intrinsic business value that occurs through the 
merger itself.  The second is the downward revision in market 
valuation that, quite rationally, is given to that now-diluted 
business value.  For current and prospective owners 
understandably will not pay as much for assets lodged in the 
hands of a management that has a record of wealth-destruction 
through unintelligent share issuances as they will pay for assets 
entrusted to a management with precisely equal operating talents, 
but a known distaste for anti-owner actions.  Once management 
shows itself insensitive to the interests of owners, shareholders 
will suffer a long time from the price/value ratio afforded their 
stock (relative to other stocks), no matter what assurances 
management gives that the value-diluting action taken was a one-
of-a-kind event.

     Those assurances are treated by the market much as one-bug-
in-the-salad explanations are treated at restaurants.  Such 
explanations, even when accompanied by a new waiter, do not 
eliminate a drop in the demand (and hence market value) for 
salads, both on the part of the offended customer and his 
neighbors pondering what to order.  Other things being equal, the 
highest stock market prices relative to intrinsic business value 
are given to companies whose managers have demonstrated their 
unwillingness to issue shares at any time on terms unfavorable to 
the owners of the business.

     At Berkshire, or any company whose policies we determine 
(including Blue Chip and Wesco), we will issue shares only if our 
owners receive in business value as much as we give.  We will not 
equate activity with progress or corporate size with owner-
wealth.


Miscellaneous

     This annual report is read by a varied audience, and it is 
possible that some members of that audience may be helpful to us 
in our acquisition program.

     We prefer:

        (1) large purchases (at least $5 million of after-tax 
            earnings),

        (2) demonstrated consistent earning power (future 
            projections are of little interest to us, nor are 
            “turn-around” situations),

        (3) businesses earning good returns on equity while 
            employing little or no debt,

        (4) management in place (we can’t supply it),

        (5) simple businesses (if there’s lots of technology, we 
            won’t understand it),

        (6) an offering price (we don’t want to waste our time or 
            that of the seller by talking, even preliminarily, 
            about a transaction when price is unknown).

     We will not engage in unfriendly transactions.  We can 
promise complete confidentiality and a very fast answer as to 
possible interest - customarily within five minutes.  Cash 
purchases are preferred, but we will consider the use of stock 
when it can be done on the basis described in the previous 
section.

                         *  *  *  *  *

     Our shareholder-designated contributions program met with 
enthusiasm again this year; 95.8% of eligible shares 
participated.  This response was particularly encouraging since 
only $1 per share was made available for designation, down from 
$2 in 1981.  If the merger with Blue Chip takes place, a probable 
by-product will be the attainment of a consolidated tax position 
that will significantly enlarge our contribution base and give us 
a potential for designating bigger per-share amounts in the 
future.

     If you wish to participate in future programs, we strongly 
urge that you immediately make sure that your shares are 
registered in the actual owner’s name, not a “street” or nominee 
name.  For new shareholders, a more complete description of the 
program is on pages 62-63.

                         *  *  *  *  *

     In a characteristically rash move, we have expanded World 
Headquarters by 252 square feet (17%), coincidental with the 
signing of a new five-year lease at 1440 Kiewit Plaza.  The five 
people who work here with me - Joan Atherton, Mike Goldberg, 
Gladys Kaiser, Verne McKenzie and Bill Scott - outproduce 
corporate groups many times their number.  A compact organization 
lets all of us spend our time managing the business rather than 
managing each other.

     Charlie Munger, my partner in management, will continue to 
operate from Los Angeles whether or not the Blue Chip merger 
occurs.  Charlie and I are interchangeable in business decisions.  
Distance impedes us not at all: we’ve always found a telephone 
call to be more productive than a half-day committee meeting.

                         *  *  *  *  *

     Two of our managerial stars retired this year: Phil Liesche 
at 65 from National Indemnity Company, and Ben Rosner at 79 from 
Associated Retail Stores.  Both of these men made you, as 
shareholders of Berkshire, a good bit wealthier than you 
otherwise would have been.  National Indemnity has been the most 
important operation in Berkshire’s growth.  Phil and Jack 
Ringwalt, his predecessor, were the two prime movers in National 
Indemnity’s success.  Ben Rosner sold Associated Retail Stores to 
Diversified Retailing Company for cash in 1967, promised to stay 
on only until the end of the year, and then hit business home 
runs for us for the next fifteen years.

     Both Ben and Phil ran their businesses for Berkshire with 
every bit of the care and drive that they would have exhibited 
had they personally owned 100% of these businesses.  No rules 
were necessary to enforce or even encourage this attitude; it was 
embedded in the character of these men long before we came on the 
scene.  Their good character became our good fortune.  If we can 
continue to attract managers with the qualities of Ben and Phil, 
you need not worry about Berkshire’s future.


                                          Warren E. Buffett
                                          Chairman of the Board







Chairman's Letter - 1983



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.



To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:

     This past year our registered shareholders increased from 
about 1900 to about 2900.  Most of this growth resulted from our 
merger with Blue Chip Stamps, but there also was an acceleration 
in the pace of “natural” increase that has raised us from the 
1000 level a few years ago.

     With so many new shareholders, it’s appropriate to summarize 
the major business principles we follow that pertain to the 
manager-owner relationship:

   o Although our form is corporate, our attitude is 
partnership.  Charlie Munger and I think of our shareholders as 
owner-partners, and of ourselves as managing partners.  (Because 
of the size of our shareholdings we also are, for better or 
worse, controlling partners.) We do not view the company itself 
as the ultimate owner of our business assets but, instead, view 
the company as a conduit through which our shareholders own the 
assets.

   o In line with this owner-orientation, our directors are all 
major shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway.  In the case of at 
least four of the five, over 50% of family net worth is 
represented by holdings of Berkshire.  We eat our own cooking.

   o Our long-term economic goal (subject to some qualifications 
mentioned later) is to maximize the average annual rate of gain 
in intrinsic business value on a per-share basis.  We do not 
measure the economic significance or performance of Berkshire by 
its size; we measure by per-share progress.  We are certain that 
the rate of per-share progress will diminish in the future - a 
greatly enlarged capital base will see to that.  But we will be 
disappointed if our rate does not exceed that of the average 
large American corporation.

   o Our preference would be to reach this goal by directly 
owning a diversified group of businesses that generate cash and 
consistently earn above-average returns on capital.  Our second 
choice is to own parts of similar businesses, attained primarily 
through purchases of marketable common stocks by our insurance 
subsidiaries.  The price and availability of businesses and the 
need for insurance capital determine any given year’s capital 
allocation.

   o Because of this two-pronged approach to business ownership 
and because of the limitations of conventional accounting, 
consolidated reported earnings may reveal relatively little about 
our true economic performance.  Charlie and I, both as owners and 
managers, virtually ignore such consolidated numbers.  However, 
we will also report to you the earnings of each major business we 
control, numbers we consider of great importance.  These figures, 
along with other information we will supply about the individual 
businesses, should generally aid you in making judgments about 
them.

   o Accounting consequences do not influence our operating or 
capital-allocation decisions.  When acquisition costs are 
similar, we much prefer to purchase $2 of earnings that is not 
reportable by us under standard accounting principles than to 
purchase $1 of earnings that is reportable.  This is precisely 
the choice that often faces us since entire businesses (whose 
earnings will be fully reportable) frequently sell for double the 
pro-rata price of small portions (whose earnings will be largely 
unreportable).  In aggregate and over time, we expect the 
unreported earnings to be fully reflected in our intrinsic 
business value through capital gains.

   o We rarely use much debt and, when we do, we attempt to 
structure it on a long-term fixed rate basis.  We will reject 
interesting opportunities rather than over-leverage our balance 
sheet.  This conservatism has penalized our results but it is the 
only behavior that leaves us comfortable, considering our 
fiduciary obligations to policyholders, depositors, lenders and 
the many equity holders who have committed unusually large 
portions of their net worth to our care.

   o A managerial “wish list” will not be filled at shareholder 
expense.  We will not diversify by purchasing entire businesses 
at control prices that ignore long-term economic consequences to 
our shareholders.  We will only do with your money what we would 
do with our own, weighing fully the values you can obtain by 
diversifying your own portfolios through direct purchases in the 
stock market.

   o We feel noble intentions should be checked periodically 
against results.  We test the wisdom of retaining earnings by 
assessing whether retention, over time, delivers shareholders at 
least $1 of market value for each $1 retained.  To date, this 
test has been met.  We will continue to apply it on a five-year 
rolling basis.  As our net worth grows, it is more difficult to 
use retained earnings wisely.

   o We will issue common stock only when we receive as much in 
business value as we give.  This rule applies to all forms of 
issuance - not only mergers or public stock offerings, but stock 
for-debt swaps, stock options, and convertible securities as 
well.  We will not sell small portions of your company - and that 
is what the issuance of shares amounts to - on a basis 
inconsistent with the value of the entire enterprise.

   o You should be fully aware of one attitude Charlie and I 
share that hurts our financial performance: regardless of price, 
we have no interest at all in selling any good businesses that 
Berkshire owns, and are very reluctant to sell sub-par businesses 
as long as we expect them to generate at least some cash and as 
long as we feel good about their managers and labor relations.  
We hope not to repeat the capital-allocation mistakes that led us 
into such sub-par businesses.  And we react with great caution to 
suggestions that our poor businesses can be restored to 
satisfactory profitability by major capital expenditures.  (The 
projections will be dazzling - the advocates will be sincere - 
but, in the end, major additional investment in a terrible 
industry usually is about as rewarding as struggling in 
quicksand.) Nevertheless, gin rummy managerial behavior (discard 
your least promising business at each turn) is not our style.  We 
would rather have our overall results penalized a bit than engage 
in it.

   o We will be candid in our reporting to you, emphasizing the 
pluses and minuses important in appraising business value.  Our 
guideline is to tell you the business facts that we would want to 
know if our positions were reversed.  We owe you no less.  
Moreover, as a company with a major communications business, it 
would be inexcusable for us to apply lesser standards of 
accuracy, balance and incisiveness when reporting on ourselves 
than we would expect our news people to apply when reporting on 
others.  We also believe candor benefits us as managers: the CEO 
who misleads others in public may eventually mislead himself in 
private.

   o Despite our policy of candor, we will discuss our 
activities in marketable securities only to the extent legally 
required.  Good investment ideas are rare, valuable and subject 
to competitive appropriation just as good product or business 
acquisition ideas are.  Therefore, we normally will not talk 
about our investment ideas.  This ban extends even to securities 
we have sold (because we may purchase them again) and to stocks 
we are incorrectly rumored to be buying.  If we deny those 
reports but say “no comment” on other occasions, the no-comments 
become confirmation.

     That completes the catechism, and we can now move on to the 
high point of 1983 - the acquisition of a majority interest in 
Nebraska Furniture Mart and our association with Rose Blumkin and 
her family.

Nebraska Furniture Mart

     Last year, in discussing how managers with bright, but 
adrenalin-soaked minds scramble after foolish acquisitions, I 
quoted Pascal: “It has struck me that all the misfortunes of men 
spring from the single cause that they are unable to stay quietly 
in one room.”

     Even Pascal would have left the room for Mrs. Blumkin.

     About 67 years ago Mrs. Blumkin, then 23, talked her way 
past a border guard to leave Russia for America.  She had no 
formal education, not even at the grammar school level, and knew 
no English.  After some years in this country, she learned the 
language when her older daughter taught her, every evening, the 
words she had learned in school during the day.

     In 1937, after many years of selling used clothing, Mrs.  
Blumkin had saved $500 with which to realize her dream of opening 
a furniture store.  Upon seeing the American Furniture Mart in 
Chicago - then the center of the nation’s wholesale furniture 
activity - she decided to christen her dream Nebraska Furniture 
Mart.

     She met every obstacle you would expect (and a few you 
wouldn’t) when a business endowed with only $500 and no 
locational or product advantage goes up against rich, long-
entrenched competition.  At one early point, when her tiny 
resources ran out, “Mrs.  B” (a personal trademark now as well 
recognized in Greater Omaha as Coca-Cola or Sanka) coped in a way 
not taught at business schools: she simply sold the furniture and 
appliances from her home in order to pay creditors precisely as 
promised.

     Omaha retailers began to recognize that Mrs. B would offer 
customers far better deals than they had been giving, and they 
pressured furniture and carpet manufacturers not to sell to her.  
But by various strategies she obtained merchandise and cut prices 
sharply.  Mrs. B was then hauled into court for violation of Fair 
Trade laws.  She not only won all the cases, but received 
invaluable publicity.  At the end of one case, after 
demonstrating to the court that she could profitably sell carpet 
at a huge discount from the prevailing price, she sold the judge 
$1400 worth of carpet.

     Today Nebraska Furniture Mart generates over $100 million of 
sales annually out of one 200,000 square-foot store.  No other 
home furnishings store in the country comes close to that volume.  
That single store also sells more furniture, carpets, and 
appliances than do all Omaha competitors combined.

     One question I always ask myself in appraising a business is 
how I would like, assuming I had ample capital and skilled 
personnel, to compete with it.  I’d rather wrestle grizzlies than 
compete with Mrs. B and her progeny.  They buy brilliantly, they 
operate at expense ratios competitors don’t even dream about, and 
they then pass on to their customers much of the savings.  It’s 
the ideal business - one built upon exceptional value to the 
customer that in turn translates into exceptional economics for 
its owners.

     Mrs. B is wise as well as smart and, for far-sighted family 
reasons, was willing to sell the business last year.  I had 
admired both the family and the business for decades, and a deal 
was quickly made.  But Mrs. B, now 90, is not one to go home and 
risk, as she puts it, “losing her marbles”.  She remains Chairman 
and is on the sales floor seven days a week.  Carpet sales are 
her specialty.  She personally sells quantities that would be a 
good departmental total for other carpet retailers.

     We purchased 90% of the business - leaving 10% with members 
of the family who are involved in management - and have optioned 
10% to certain key young family managers.

     And what managers they are.  Geneticists should do 
handsprings over the Blumkin family.  Louie Blumkin, Mrs.  B’s 
son, has been President of Nebraska Furniture Mart for many years 
and is widely regarded as the shrewdest buyer of furniture and 
appliances in the country.  Louie says he had the best teacher, 
and Mrs. B says she had the best student.  They’re both right.  
Louie and his three sons all have the Blumkin business ability, 
work ethic, and, most important, character.  On top of that, they 
are really nice people.  We are delighted to be in partnership 
with them.

Corporate Performance

     During 1983 our book value increased from $737.43 per share 
to $975.83 per share, or by 32%.  We never take the one-year 
figure very seriously.  After all, why should the time required 
for a planet to circle the sun synchronize precisely with the 
time required for business actions to pay off?  Instead, we 
recommend not less than a five-year test as a rough yardstick of 
economic performance.  Red lights should start flashing if the 
five-year average annual gain falls much below the return on 
equity earned over the period by American industry in aggregate. 
(Watch out for our explanation if that occurs as Goethe observed, 
“When ideas fail, words come in very handy.”)

     During the 19-year tenure of present management, book value 
has grown from $19.46 per share to $975.83, or 22.6% compounded 
annually.  Considering our present size, nothing close to this 
rate of return can be sustained.  Those who believe otherwise 
should pursue a career in sales, but avoid one in mathematics.

     We report our progress in terms of book value because in our 
case (though not, by any means, in all cases) it is a 
conservative but reasonably adequate proxy for growth in 
intrinsic business value - the measurement that really counts.  
Book value’s virtue as a score-keeping measure is that it is easy 
to calculate and doesn’t involve the subjective (but important) 
judgments employed in calculation of intrinsic business value.  
It is important to understand, however, that the two terms - book 
value and intrinsic business value - have very different 
meanings.

     Book value is an accounting concept, recording the 
accumulated financial input from both contributed capital and 
retained earnings.  Intrinsic business value is an economic 
concept, estimating future cash output discounted to present 
value.  Book value tells you what has been put in; intrinsic 
business value estimates what can be taken out.

     An analogy will suggest the difference.  Assume you spend 
identical amounts putting each of two children through college.  
The book value (measured by financial input) of each child’s 
education would be the same.  But the present value of the future 
payoff (the intrinsic business value) might vary enormously - 
from zero to many times the cost of the education.  So, also, do 
businesses having equal financial input end up with wide 
variations in value.

     At Berkshire, at the beginning of fiscal 1965 when the 
present management took over, the $19.46 per share book value 
considerably overstated intrinsic business value.  All of that 
book value consisted of textile assets that could not earn, on 
average, anything close to an appropriate rate of return.  In the 
terms of our analogy, the investment in textile assets resembled 
investment in a largely-wasted education.

     Now, however, our intrinsic business value considerably 
exceeds book value.  There are two major reasons:

     (1) Standard accounting principles require that common 
         stocks held by our insurance subsidiaries be stated on 
         our books at market value, but that other stocks we own 
         be carried at the lower of aggregate cost or market.  
         At the end of 1983, the market value of this latter 
         group exceeded carrying value by $70 million pre-tax, 
         or about $50 million after tax.  This excess belongs in 
         our intrinsic business value, but is not included in 
         the calculation of book value;

     (2) More important, we own several businesses that possess 
         economic Goodwill (which is properly includable in 
         intrinsic business value) far larger than the 
         accounting Goodwill that is carried on our balance 
         sheet and reflected in book value.

     Goodwill, both economic and accounting, is an arcane subject 
and requires more explanation than is appropriate here.  The 
appendix that follows this letter - “Goodwill and its 
Amortization: The Rules and The Realities” - explains why 
economic and accounting Goodwill can, and usually do, differ 
enormously.

     You can live a full and rewarding life without ever thinking 
about Goodwill and its amortization.  But students of investment 
and management should understand the nuances of the subject.  My 
own thinking has changed drastically from 35 years ago when I was 
taught to favor tangible assets and to shun businesses whose 
value depended largely upon economic Goodwill.  This bias caused 
me to make many important business mistakes of omission, although 
relatively few of commission.

     Keynes identified my problem: “The difficulty lies not in 
the new ideas but in escaping from the old ones.” My escape was 
long delayed, in part because most of what I had been taught by 
the same teacher had been (and continues to be) so 
extraordinarily valuable.  Ultimately, business experience, 
direct and vicarious, produced my present strong preference for 
businesses that possess large amounts of enduring Goodwill and 
that utilize a minimum of tangible assets.

     I recommend the Appendix to those who are comfortable with 
accounting terminology and who have an interest in understanding 
the business aspects of Goodwill.  Whether or not you wish to 
tackle the Appendix, you should be aware that Charlie and I 
believe that Berkshire possesses very significant economic 
Goodwill value above that reflected in our book value.

Sources of Reported Earnings

     The table below shows the sources of Berkshire’s reported 
earnings.  In 1982, Berkshire owned about 60% of Blue Chip Stamps 
whereas, in 1983, our ownership was 60% throughout the first six 
months and 100% thereafter.  In turn, Berkshire’s net interest in 
Wesco was 48% during 1982 and the first six months of 1983, and 
80% for the balance of 1983.  Because of these changed ownership 
percentages, the first two columns of the table provide the best 
measure of underlying business performance.

     All of the significant gains and losses attributable to 
unusual sales of assets by any of the business entities are 
aggregated with securities transactions on the line near the 
bottom of the table, and are not included in operating earnings. 
(We regard any annual figure for realized capital gains or losses 
as meaningless, but we regard the aggregate realized and 
unrealized capital gains over a period of years as very 
important.) Furthermore, amortization of Goodwill is not charged 
against the specific businesses but, for reasons outlined in the 
Appendix, is set forth as a separate item.

                                                                         Net Earnings
                                   Earnings Before Income Taxes            After Tax
                              --------------------------------------  ------------------
                                    Total          Berkshire Share     Berkshire Share
                              ------------------  ------------------  ------------------
                                1983      1982      1983      1982      1983      1982
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
                                                    (000s omitted)
Operating Earnings:
  Insurance Group:
    Underwriting ............ $(33,872) $(21,558) $(33,872) $(21,558) $(18,400) $(11,345)
    Net Investment Income ...   43,810    41,620    43,810    41,620    39,114    35,270
  Berkshire-Waumbec Textiles      (100)   (1,545)     (100)   (1,545)      (63)     (862)
  Associated Retail Stores ..      697       914       697       914       355       446
  Nebraska Furniture Mart(1)     3,812      --       3,049      --       1,521      --
  See’s Candies .............   27,411    23,884    24,526    14,235    12,212     6,914
  Buffalo Evening News ......   19,352    (1,215)   16,547      (724)    8,832      (226)
  Blue Chip Stamps(2) .......   (1,422)    4,182    (1,876)    2,492      (353)    2,472
  Wesco Financial - Parent ..    7,493     6,156     4,844     2,937     3,448     2,210
  Mutual Savings and Loan ...     (798)       (6)     (467)       (2)    1,917     1,524
  Precision Steel ...........    3,241     1,035     2,102       493     1,136       265
  Interest on Debt ..........  (15,104)  (14,996)  (13,844)  (12,977)   (7,346)   (6,951)
  Special GEICO Distribution    21,000      --      21,000      --      19,551      --
  Shareholder-Designated
     Contributions ..........   (3,066)     (891)   (3,066)     (891)   (1,656)     (481)
  Amortization of Goodwill ..     (532)      151      (563)       90      (563)       90
  Other .....................   10,121     3,371     9,623     2,658     8,490     2,171
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Operating Earnings ..........   82,043    41,102    72,410    27,742    68,195    31,497
Sales of securities and
   unusual sales of assets ..   67,260    36,651    65,089    21,875    45,298    14,877
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Total Earnings .............. $149,303  $ 77,753  $137,499  $ 49,617  $113,493  $ 46,374
                              ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========

(1) October through December
(2) 1982 and 1983 are not comparable; major assets were 
    transferred in the merger.

     For a discussion of the businesses owned by Wesco, please 
read Charlie Munger’s report on pages 46-51.  Charlie replaced 
Louie Vincenti as Chairman of Wesco late in 1983 when health 
forced Louie’s retirement at age 77.  In some instances, “health” 
is a euphemism, but in Louie’s case nothing but health would 
cause us to consider his retirement.  Louie is a marvelous man 
and has been a marvelous manager.

     The special GEICO distribution reported in the table arose 
when that company made a tender offer for a portion of its stock, 
buying both from us and other shareholders.  At GEICO’s request, 
we tendered a quantity of shares that kept our ownership 
percentage the same after the transaction as before.  The 
proportional nature of our sale permitted us to treat the 
proceeds as a dividend.  Unlike individuals, corporations net 
considerably more when earnings are derived from dividends rather 
than from capital gains, since the effective Federal income tax 
rate on dividends is 6.9% versus 28% on capital gains.

     Even with this special item added in, our total dividends 
from GEICO in 1983 were considerably less than our share of 
GEICO’s earnings.  Thus it is perfectly appropriate, from both an 
accounting and economic standpoint, to include the redemption 
proceeds in our reported earnings.  It is because the item is 
large and unusual that we call your attention to it.

     The table showing you our sources of earnings includes 
dividends from those non-controlled companies whose marketable 
equity securities we own.  But the table does not include 
earnings those companies have retained that are applicable to our 
ownership.  In aggregate and over time we expect those 
undistributed earnings to be reflected in market prices and to 
increase our intrinsic business value on a dollar-for-dollar 
basis, just as if those earnings had been under our control and 
reported as part of our profits.  That does not mean we expect 
all of our holdings to behave uniformly; some will disappoint us, 
others will deliver pleasant surprises.  To date our experience 
has been better than we originally anticipated, In aggregate, we 
have received far more than a dollar of market value gain for 
every dollar of earnings retained.

     The following table shows our 1983 yearend net holdings in 
marketable equities.  All numbers represent 100% of Berkshire’s 
holdings, and 80% of Wesco’s holdings.  The portion attributable 
to minority shareholders of Wesco has been excluded.

No. of Shares                                        Cost        Market
-------------                                     ----------   ----------
                                                      (000s omitted)
    690,975    Affiliated Publications, Inc. ....  $  3,516     $  26,603
  4,451,544    General Foods Corporation(a) .....   163,786       228,698
  6,850,000    GEICO Corporation ................    47,138       398,156
  2,379,200    Handy & Harman ...................    27,318        42,231
    636,310    Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.   4,056        33,088
    197,200    Media General ....................     3,191        11,191
    250,400    Ogilvy & Mather International ....     2,580        12,833
  5,618,661    R. J. Reynolds Industries, Inc.(a)   268,918       341,334
    901,788    Time, Inc. .......................    27,732        56,860
  1,868,600    The Washington Post Company ......    10,628       136,875
                                                  ----------   ----------
                                                   $558,863    $1,287,869
               All Other Common Stockholdings ...     7,485        18,044
                                                  ----------   ----------
               Total Common Stocks ..............  $566,348    $1,305,913
                                                  ==========   ==========

(a) WESCO owns shares in these companies.

     Based upon present holdings and present dividend rates - 
excluding any special items such as the GEICO proportional 
redemption last year - we would expect reported dividends from 
this group to be approximately $39 million in 1984.  We can also 
make a very rough guess about the earnings this group will retain 
that will be attributable to our ownership: these may total about 
$65 million for the year.  These retained earnings could well 
have no immediate effect on market prices of the securities.  
Over time, however, we feel they will have real meaning.

     In addition to the figures already supplied, information 
regarding the businesses we control appears in Management’s 
Discussion on pages 40-44.  The most significant of these are 
Buffalo Evening News, See’s, and the Insurance Group, to which we 
will give some special attention here.

Buffalo Evening News

     First, a clarification: our corporate name is Buffalo 
Evening News, Inc. but the name of the newspaper, since we began 
a morning edition a little over a year ago, is Buffalo News.

     In 1983 the News somewhat exceeded its targeted profit 
margin of 10% after tax.  Two factors were responsible: (1) a 
state income tax cost that was subnormal because of a large loss 
carry-forward, now fully utilized, and (2) a large drop in the 
per-ton cost of newsprint (an unanticipated fluke that will be 
reversed in 1984).

     Although our profit margins in 1983 were about average for 
newspapers such as the News, the paper’s performance, 
nevertheless, was a significant achievement considering the 
economic and retailing environment in Buffalo.

     Buffalo has a concentration of heavy industry, a segment of 
the economy that was hit particularly hard by the recent 
recession and that has lagged the recovery.  As Buffalo consumers 
have suffered, so also have the paper’s retailing customers.  
Their numbers have shrunk over the past few years and many of 
those surviving have cut their linage.

     Within this environment the News has one exceptional 
strength: its acceptance by the public, a matter measured by the 
paper’s “penetration ratio” - the percentage of households within 
the community purchasing the paper each day.  Our ratio is 
superb: for the six months ended September 30, 1983 the News 
stood number one in weekday penetration among the 100 largest 
papers in the United States (the ranking is based on “city zone” 
numbers compiled by the Audit Bureau of Circulations).

     In interpreting the standings, it is important to note that 
many large cities have two papers, and that in such cases the 
penetration of either paper is necessarily lower than if there 
were a single paper, as in Buffalo.  Nevertheless, the list of 
the 100 largest papers includes many that have a city to 
themselves.  Among these, the News is at the top nationally, far 
ahead of many of the country’s best-known dailies.

     Among Sunday editions of these same large dailies, the News 
ranks number three in penetration - ten to twenty percentage 
points ahead of many well-known papers.  It was not always this 
way in Buffalo. Below we show Sunday circulation in Buffalo in 
the years prior to 1977 compared with the present period.  In 
that earlier period the Sunday paper was the Courier-Express (the 
News was not then publishing a Sunday paper).  Now, of course, it 
is the News.

                  Average Sunday Circulation
                  --------------------------
               Year                    Circulation
               ----                    -----------
               1970                      314,000
               1971                      306,000
               1972                      302,000
               1973                      290,000
               1974                      278,000
               1975                      269,000
               1976                      270,000

               1984 (Current)            376,000

     We believe a paper’s penetration ratio to be the best 
measure of the strength of its franchise.  Papers with unusually 
high penetration in the geographical area that is of prime 
interest to major local retailers, and with relatively little 
circulation elsewhere, are exceptionally efficient buys for those 
retailers.  Low-penetration papers have a far less compelling 
message to present to advertisers.

     In our opinion, three factors largely account for the 
unusual acceptance of the News in the community.  Among these, 
points 2 and 3 also may explain the popularity of the Sunday News 
compared to that of the Sunday Courier-Express when it was the 
sole Sunday paper:

     (1) The first point has nothing to do with merits of the 
         News.  Both emigration and immigration are relatively 
         low in Buffalo.  A stable population is more interested 
         and involved in the activities of its community than is 
         a shifting population - and, as a result, is more 
         interested in the content of the local daily paper.  
         Increase the movement in and out of a city and 
         penetration ratios will fall.

     (2) The News has a reputation for editorial quality and 
         integrity that was honed by our longtime editor, the 
         legendary Alfred Kirchhofer, and that has been preserved 
         and extended by Murray Light.  This reputation was 
         enormously important to our success in establishing a 
         Sunday paper against entrenched competition.  And without 
         a Sunday edition, the News would not have survived in the 
         long run.

     (3) The News lives up to its name - it delivers a very 
         unusual amount of news.  During 1983, our “news hole” 
         (editorial material - not ads) amounted to 50% of the 
         newspaper’s content (excluding preprinted inserts).  
         Among papers that dominate their markets and that are of 
         comparable or larger size, we know of only one whose news 
         hole percentage exceeds that of the News.  Comprehensive 
         figures are not available, but a sampling indicates an 
         average percentage in the high 30s.  In other words, page 
         for page, our mix gives readers over 25% more news than 
         the typical paper.  This news-rich mixture is by intent.  
         Some publishers, pushing for higher profit margins, have 
         cut their news holes during the past decade.  We have 
         maintained ours and will continue to do so.  Properly 
         written and edited, a full serving of news makes our 
         paper more valuable to the reader and contributes to our 
         unusual penetration ratio.

     Despite the strength of the News’ franchise, gains in ROP 
linage (advertising printed within the newspaper pages as 
contrasted to preprinted inserts) are going to be very difficult 
to achieve.  We had an enormous gain in preprints during 1983: 
lines rose from 9.3 million to 16.4 million, revenues from $3.6 
million to $8.1 million.  These gains are consistent with 
national trends, but exaggerated in our case by business we 
picked up when the Courier-Express closed.

     On balance, the shift from ROP to preprints has negative 
economic implications for us.  Profitability on preprints is less 
and the business is more subject to competition from alternative 
means of delivery.  Furthermore, a reduction in ROP linage means 
less absolute space devoted to news (since the news hole 
percentage remains constant), thereby reducing the utility of the 
paper to the reader.

     Stan Lipsey became Publisher of the Buffalo News at midyear 
upon the retirement of Henry Urban.  Henry never flinched during 
the dark days of litigation and losses following our introduction 
of the Sunday paper - an introduction whose wisdom was questioned 
by many in the newspaper business, including some within our own 
building.  Henry is admired by the Buffalo business community, 
he’s admired by all who worked for him, and he is admired by 
Charlie and me.  Stan worked with Henry for several years, and 
has worked for Berkshire Hathaway since 1969.  He has been 
personally involved in all nuts-and-bolts aspects of the 
newspaper business from editorial to circulation.  We couldn’t do 
better.

See’s Candy Shops

     The financial results at See’s continue to be exceptional.  
The business possesses a valuable and solid consumer franchise 
and a manager equally valuable and solid.

     In recent years See’s has encountered two important 
problems, at least one of which is well on its way toward 
solution.  That problem concerns costs, except those for raw 
materials.  We have enjoyed a break on raw material costs in 
recent years though so, of course, have our competitors.  One of 
these days we will get a nasty surprise in the opposite 
direction.  In effect, raw material costs are largely beyond our 
control since we will, as a matter of course, buy the finest 
ingredients that we can, regardless of changes in their price 
levels.  We regard product quality as sacred.

     But other kinds of costs are more controllable, and it is in 
this area that we have had problems.  On a per-pound basis, our 
costs (not including those for raw materials) have increased in 
the last few years at a rate significantly greater than the 
increase in the general price level.  It is vital to our 
competitive position and profit potential that we reverse this 
trend.

     In recent months much better control over costs has been 
attained and we feel certain that our rate of growth in these 
costs in 1984 will be below the rate of inflation.  This 
confidence arises out of our long experience with the managerial 
talents of Chuck Huggins.  We put Chuck in charge the day we took 
over, and his record has been simply extraordinary, as shown by 
the following table:

  52-53 Week Year                     Operating     Number of    Number of
    Ended About           Sales        Profits      Pounds of   Stores Open
    December 31         Revenues     After Taxes   Candy Sold   at Year End
-------------------   ------------   -----------   ----------   -----------
1983 (53 weeks) ...   $133,531,000   $13,699,000   24,651,000       207
1982 ..............    123,662,000    11,875,000   24,216,000       202
1981 ..............    112,578,000    10,779,000   24,052,000       199
1980 ..............     97,715,000     7,547,000   24,065,000       191
1979 ..............     87,314,000     6,330,000   23,985,000       188
1978 ..............     73,653,000     6,178,000   22,407,000       182
1977 ..............     62,886,000     6,154,000   20,921,000       179
1976 (53 weeks) ...     56,333,000     5,569,000   20,553,000       173
1975 ..............     50,492,000     5,132,000   19,134,000       172
1974 ..............     41,248,000     3,021,000   17,883,000       170
1973 ..............     35,050,000     1,940,000   17,813,000       169
1972 ..............     31,337,000     2,083,000   16,954,000       167

     The other problem we face, as the table suggests, is our 
recent inability to achieve meaningful gains in pounds sold.  The 
industry has the same problem.  But for many years we 
outperformed the industry in this respect and now we are not.

     The poundage volume in our retail stores has been virtually 
unchanged each year for the past four, despite small increases 
every year in the number of shops (and in distribution expense as 
well).  Of course, dollar volume has increased because we have 
raised prices significantly.  But we regard the most important 
measure of retail trends to be units sold per store rather than 
dollar volume.  On a same-store basis (counting only shops open 
throughout both years) with all figures adjusted to a 52-week 
year, poundage was down .8 of 1% during 1983.  This small decline 
was our best same-store performance since 1979; the cumulative 
decline since then has been about 8%.  Quantity-order volume, 
about 25% of our total, has plateaued in recent years following 
very large poundage gains throughout the 1970s.

     We are not sure to what extent this flat volume - both in 
the retail shop area and the quantity order area - is due to our 
pricing policies and to what extent it is due to static industry 
volume, the recession, and the extraordinary share of market we 
already enjoy in our primary marketing area.  Our price increase 
for 1984 is much more modest than has been the case in the past 
few years, and we hope that next year we can report better volume 
figures to you.  But we have no basis to forecast these.

     Despite the volume problem, See’s strengths are many and 
important.  In our primary marketing area, the West, our candy is 
preferred by an enormous margin to that of any competitor.  In 
fact, we believe most lovers of chocolate prefer it to candy 
costing two or three times as much. (In candy, as in stocks, 
price and value can differ; price is what you give, value is what 
you get.) The quality of customer service in our shops - operated 
throughout the country by us and not by franchisees is every bit 
as good as the product.  Cheerful, helpful personnel are as much 
a trademark of See’s as is the logo on the box.  That’s no small 
achievement in a business that requires us to hire about 2000 
seasonal workers.  We know of no comparably-sized organization 
that betters the quality of customer service delivered by Chuck 
Huggins and his associates.

     Because we have raised prices so modestly in 1984, we expect 
See’s profits this year to be about the same as in 1983.  

Insurance - Controlled Operations

     We both operate insurance companies and have a large 
economic interest in an insurance business we don’t operate, 
GEICO.  The results for all can be summed up easily: in 
aggregate, the companies we operate and whose underwriting 
results reflect the consequences of decisions that were my 
responsibility a few years ago, had absolutely terrible results.  
Fortunately, GEICO, whose policies I do not influence, simply 
shot the lights out.  The inference you draw from this summary is 
the correct one.  I made some serious mistakes a few years ago 
that came home to roost.

     The industry had its worst underwriting year in a long time, 
as indicated by the table below:

                          Yearly Change      Combined Ratio
                           in Premiums        after Policy-
                           Written (%)      holder Dividends
                          -------------     ----------------
1972 ....................     10.2                96.2
1973 ....................      8.0                99.2
1974 ....................      6.2               105.4
1975 ....................     11.0               107.9
1976 ....................     21.9               102.4
1977 ....................     19.8                97.2
1978 ....................     12.8                97.5
1979 ....................     10.3               100.6
1980 ....................      6.0               103.1
1981 ....................      3.9               106.0
1982 (Revised) ..........      4.4               109.7
1983 (Estimated) ........      4.6               111.0

Source: Best’s Aggregates and Averages.

     Best’s data reflect the experience of practically the entire 
industry, including stock, mutual, and reciprocal companies.  The 
combined ratio represents total insurance costs (losses incurred 
plus expenses) compared to revenue from premiums; a ratio below 
100 indicates an underwriting profit and one above 100 indicates 
a loss.

     For the reasons outlined in last year’s report, we expect 
the poor industry experience of 1983 to be more or less typical 
for a good many years to come. (As Yogi Berra put it: “It will be 
deja vu all over again.”) That doesn’t mean we think the figures 
won’t bounce around a bit; they are certain to.  But we believe 
it highly unlikely that the combined ratio during the balance of 
the decade will average significantly below the 1981-1983 level.  
Based on our expectations regarding inflation - and we are as 
pessimistic as ever on that front - industry premium volume must 
grow about 10% annually merely to stabilize loss ratios at 
present levels.

     Our own combined ratio in 1983 was 121.  Since Mike Goldberg 
recently took over most of the responsibility for the insurance 
operation, it would be nice for me if our shortcomings could be 
placed at his doorstep rather than mine.  But unfortunately, as 
we have often pointed out, the insurance business has a long 
lead-time.  Though business policies may be changed and personnel 
improved, a significant period must pass before the effects are 
seen.  (This characteristic of the business enabled us to make a 
great deal of money in GEICO; we could picture what was likely to 
happen well before it actually occurred.) So the roots of the 
1983 results are operating and personnel decisions made two or 
more years back when I had direct managerial responsibility for 
the insurance group.

     Despite our poor results overall, several of our managers 
did truly outstanding jobs.  Roland Miller guided the auto and 
general liability business of National Indemnity Company and 
National Fire and Marine Insurance Company to improved results, 
while those of competitors deteriorated.  In addition, Tom Rowley 
at Continental Divide Insurance - our fledgling Colorado 
homestate company - seems certain to be a winner.  Mike found him 
a little over a year ago, and he was an important acquisition.

     We have become active recently - and hope to become much 
more active - in reinsurance transactions where the buyer’s 
overriding concern should be the seller’s long-term 
creditworthiness.  In such transactions our premier financial 
strength should make us the number one choice of both claimants 
and insurers who must rely on the reinsurer’s promises for a 
great many years to come.

     A major source of such business is structured settlements - 
a procedure for settling losses under which claimants receive 
periodic payments (almost always monthly, for life) rather than a 
single lump sum settlement.  This form of settlement has 
important tax advantages for the claimant and also prevents his 
squandering a large lump-sum payment.  Frequently, some inflation 
protection is built into the settlement.  Usually the claimant 
has been seriously injured, and thus the periodic payments must 
be unquestionably secure for decades to come.  We believe we 
offer unparalleled security.  No other insurer we know of - even 
those with much larger gross assets - has our financial strength.

     We also think our financial strength should recommend us to 
companies wishing to transfer loss reserves.  In such 
transactions, other insurance companies pay us lump sums to 
assume all (or a specified portion of) future loss payments 
applicable to large blocks of expired business.  Here also, the 
company transferring such claims needs to be certain of the 
transferee’s financial strength for many years to come.  Again, 
most of our competitors soliciting such business appear to us to 
have a financial condition that is materially inferior to ours.

     Potentially, structured settlements and the assumption of 
loss reserves could become very significant to us.  Because of 
their potential size and because these operations generate large 
amounts of investment income compared to premium volume, we will 
show underwriting results from those businesses on a separate 
line in our insurance segment data.  We also will exclude their 
effect in reporting our combined ratio to you.  We “front end” no 
profit on structured settlement or loss reserve transactions, and 
all attributable overhead is expensed currently.  Both businesses 
are run by Don Wurster at National Indemnity Company.

Insurance - GEICO

     Geico’s performance during 1983 was as good as our own 
insurance performance was poor.  Compared to the industry’s 
combined ratio of 111, GEICO wrote at 96 after a large voluntary 
accrual for policyholder dividends.  A few years ago I would not 
have thought GEICO could so greatly outperform the industry.  Its 
superiority reflects the combination of a truly exceptional 
business idea and an exceptional management.

     Jack Byrne and Bill Snyder have maintained extraordinary 
discipline in the underwriting area (including, crucially, 
provision for full and proper loss reserves), and their efforts 
are now being further rewarded by significant gains in new 
business.  Equally important, Lou Simpson is the class of the 
field among insurance investment managers.  The three of them are 
some team.

     We have approximately a one-third interest in GEICO.  That 
gives us a $270 million share in the company’s premium volume, an 
amount some 80% larger than our own volume.  Thus, the major 
portion of our total insurance business comes from the best 
insurance book in the country.  This fact does not moderate by an 
iota the need for us to improve our own operation.

Stock Splits and Stock Activity

     We often are asked why Berkshire does not split its stock.  
The assumption behind this question usually appears to be that a 
split would be a pro-shareholder action.  We disagree.  Let me 
tell you why.

     One of our goals is to have Berkshire Hathaway stock sell at 
a price rationally related to its intrinsic business value.  (But 
note “rationally related”, not “identical”: if well-regarded 
companies are generally selling in the market at large discounts 
from value, Berkshire might well be priced similarly.) The key to 
a rational stock price is rational shareholders, both current and 
prospective.

     If the holders of a company’s stock and/or the prospective 
buyers attracted to it are prone to make irrational or emotion-
based decisions, some pretty silly stock prices are going to 
appear periodically.  Manic-depressive personalities produce 
manic-depressive valuations.  Such aberrations may help us in 
buying and selling the stocks of other companies.  But we think 
it is in both your interest and ours to minimize their occurrence 
in the market for Berkshire.

     To obtain only high quality shareholders is no cinch.  Mrs. 
Astor could select her 400, but anyone can buy any stock.  
Entering members of a shareholder “club” cannot be screened for 
intellectual capacity, emotional stability, moral sensitivity or 
acceptable dress.  Shareholder eugenics, therefore, might appear 
to be a hopeless undertaking.

     In large part, however, we feel that high quality ownership 
can be attracted and maintained if we consistently communicate 
our business and ownership philosophy - along with no other 
conflicting messages - and then let self selection follow its 
course.  For example, self selection will draw a far different 
crowd to a musical event advertised as an opera than one 
advertised as a rock concert even though anyone can buy a ticket 
to either.

     Through our policies and communications - our 
“advertisements” - we try to attract investors who will 
understand our operations, attitudes and expectations. (And, 
fully as important, we try to dissuade those who won’t.) We want 
those who think of themselves as business owners and invest in 
companies with the intention of staying a long time.  And, we 
want those who keep their eyes focused on business results, not 
market prices.

     Investors possessing those characteristics are in a small 
minority, but we have an exceptional collection of them.  I 
believe well over 90% - probably over 95% - of our shares are 
held by those who were shareholders of Berkshire or Blue Chip 
five years ago.  And I would guess that over 95% of our shares 
are held by investors for whom the holding is at least double the 
size of their next largest.  Among companies with at least 
several thousand public shareholders and more than $1 billion of 
market value, we are almost certainly the leader in the degree to 
which our shareholders think and act like owners.  Upgrading a 
shareholder group that possesses these characteristics is not 
easy.

     Were we to split the stock or take other actions focusing on 
stock price rather than business value, we would attract an 
entering class of buyers inferior to the exiting class of 
sellers.  At $1300, there are very few investors who can’t afford 
a Berkshire share.  Would a potential one-share purchaser be 
better off if we split 100 for 1 so he could buy 100 shares?  
Those who think so and who would buy the stock because of the 
split or in anticipation of one would definitely downgrade the 
quality of our present shareholder group. (Could we really 
improve our shareholder group by trading some of our present 
clear-thinking members for impressionable new ones who, 
preferring paper to value, feel wealthier with nine $10 bills 
than with one $100 bill?) People who buy for non-value reasons 
are likely to sell for non-value reasons.  Their presence in the 
picture will accentuate erratic price swings unrelated to 
underlying business developments.

     We will try to avoid policies that attract buyers with a 
short-term focus on our stock price and try to follow policies 
that attract informed long-term investors focusing on business 
values. just as you purchased your Berkshire shares in a market 
populated by rational informed investors, you deserve a chance to 
sell - should you ever want to - in the same kind of market.  We 
will work to keep it in existence.

     One of the ironies of the stock market is the emphasis on 
activity.  Brokers, using terms such as “marketability” and 
“liquidity”, sing the praises of companies with high share 
turnover (those who cannot fill your pocket will confidently fill 
your ear).  But investors should understand that what is good for 
the croupier is not good for the customer.  A hyperactive stock 
market is the pickpocket of enterprise.

     For example, consider a typical company earning, say, 12% on 
equity.  Assume a very high turnover rate in its shares of 100% 
per year.  If a purchase and sale of the stock each extract 
commissions of 1% (the rate may be much higher on low-priced 
stocks) and if the stock trades at book value, the owners of our 
hypothetical company will pay, in aggregate, 2% of the company’s 
net worth annually for the privilege of transferring ownership.  
This activity does nothing for the earnings of the business, and 
means that 1/6 of them are lost to the owners through the 
“frictional” cost of transfer. (And this calculation does not 
count option trading, which would increase frictional costs still 
further.)

     All that makes for a rather expensive game of musical 
chairs.  Can you imagine the agonized cry that would arise if a 
governmental unit were to impose a new 16 2/3% tax on earnings of 
corporations or investors?  By market activity, investors can 
impose upon themselves the equivalent of such a tax.

     Days when the market trades 100 million shares (and that 
kind of volume, when over-the-counter trading is included, is 
today abnormally low) are a curse for owners, not a blessing - 
for they mean that owners are paying twice as much to change 
chairs as they are on a 50-million-share day.  If 100 million-
share days persist for a year and the average cost on each 
purchase and sale is 15 cents a share, the chair-changing tax for 
investors in aggregate would total about $7.5 billion - an amount 
roughly equal to the combined 1982 profits of Exxon, General 
Motors, Mobil and Texaco, the four largest companies in the 
Fortune 500.

     These companies had a combined net worth of $75 billion at 
yearend 1982 and accounted for over 12% of both net worth and net 
income of the entire Fortune 500 list.  Under our assumption 
investors, in aggregate, every year forfeit all earnings from 
this staggering sum of capital merely to satisfy their penchant 
for “financial flip-flopping”.  In addition, investment 
management fees of over $2 billion annually - sums paid for 
chair-changing advice - require the forfeiture by investors of 
all earnings of the five largest banking organizations (Citicorp, 
Bank America, Chase Manhattan, Manufacturers Hanover and J. P. 
Morgan).  These expensive activities may decide who eats the pie, 
but they don’t enlarge it.

     (We are aware of the pie-expanding argument that says that 
such activities improve the rationality of the capital allocation 
process.  We think that this argument is specious and that, on 
balance, hyperactive equity markets subvert rational capital 
allocation and act as pie shrinkers.  Adam Smith felt that all 
noncollusive acts in a free market were guided by an invisible 
hand that led an economy to maximum progress; our view is that 
casino-type markets and hair-trigger investment management act as 
an invisible foot that trips up and slows down a forward-moving 
economy.)

     Contrast the hyperactive stock with Berkshire.  The bid-and-
ask spread in our stock currently is about 30 points, or a little 
over 2%.  Depending on the size of the transaction, the 
difference between proceeds received by the seller of Berkshire 
and cost to the buyer may range downward from 4% (in trading 
involving only a few shares) to perhaps 1 1/2% (in large trades 
where negotiation can reduce both the market-maker’s spread and 
the broker’s commission).  Because most Berkshire shares are 
traded in fairly large transactions, the spread on all trading 
probably does not average more than 2%.

     Meanwhile, true turnover in Berkshire stock (excluding 
inter-dealer transactions, gifts and bequests) probably runs 3% 
per year.  Thus our owners, in aggregate, are paying perhaps 
6/100 of 1% of Berkshire’s market value annually for transfer 
privileges.  By this very rough estimate, that’s $900,000 - not a 
small cost, but far less than average.  Splitting the stock would 
increase that cost, downgrade the quality of our shareholder 
population, and encourage a market price less consistently 
related to intrinsic business value.  We see no offsetting 
advantages.

Miscellaneous

     Last year in this section I ran a small ad to encourage 
acquisition candidates.  In our communications businesses we tell 
our advertisers that repetition is a key to results (which it 
is), so we will again repeat our acquisition criteria.

     We prefer:
        (1) large purchases (at least $5 million of after-tax 
            earnings),
        (2) demonstrated consistent earning power (future 
            projections are of little interest to us, nor are 
            “turn-around” situations),
        (3) businesses earning good returns on equity while 
            employing little or no debt,
        (4) management in place (we can’t supply it),
        (5) simple businesses (if there’s lots of technology, we 
            won’t understand it),
        (6) an offering price (we don’t want to waste our time or 
            that of the seller by talking, even preliminarily, 
            about a transaction when price is unknown).

     We will not engage in unfriendly takeovers.  We can promise 
complete confidentiality and a very fast answer - customarily 
within five minutes - as to whether we’re interested.  We prefer 
to buy for cash, but will consider issuance of stock when we 
receive as much in intrinsic business value as we give.  We 
invite potential sellers to check us out by contacting people 
with whom we have done business in the past.  For the right 
business - and the right people - we can provide a good home.

                         *  *  *  *  *

     About 96.4% of all eligible shares participated in our 1983 
shareholder-designated contributions program.  The total 
contributions made pursuant to this program - disbursed in the 
early days of 1984 but fully expensed in 1983 - were $3,066,501, 
and 1353 charities were recipients.  Although the response 
measured by the percentage of shares participating was 
extraordinarily good, the response measured by the percentage of 
holders participating was not as good.  The reason may well be 
the large number of new shareholders acquired through the merger 
and their lack of familiarity with the program.  We urge new 
shareholders to read the description of the program on pages 52-
53.

     If you wish to participate in future programs, we strongly 
urge that you immediately make sure that your shares are 
registered in the actual owner’s name, not in “street” or nominee 
name.  Shares not so registered on September 28, 1984 will not be 
eligible for any 1984 program.

                         *  *  *  *  *

     The Blue Chip/Berkshire merger went off without a hitch.  
Less than one-tenth of 1% of the shares of each company voted 
against the merger, and no requests for appraisal were made.  In 
1983, we gained some tax efficiency from the merger and we expect 
to gain more in the future.

     One interesting sidelight to the merger: Berkshire now has 
1,146,909 shares outstanding compared to 1,137,778 shares at the 
beginning of fiscal 1965, the year present management assumed 
responsibility.  For every 1% of the company you owned at that 
time, you now would own .99%. Thus, all of today’s assets - the 
News, See’s, Nebraska Furniture Mart, the Insurance Group, $1.3 
billion in marketable stocks, etc. - have been added to the 
original textile assets with virtually no net dilution to the 
original owners.

     We are delighted to have the former Blue Chip shareholders 
join us.  To aid in your understanding of Berkshire Hathaway, we 
will be glad to send you the Compendium of Letters from the 
Annual Reports of 1977-1981, and/or the 1982 Annual report.  
Direct your request to the Company at 1440 Kiewit Plaza, Omaha, 
Nebraska 68131.


                                        Warren E. Buffett
March 14, 1984                          Chairman of the Board


Appendix
Appendix

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.

 
Goodwill and its Amortization:  The Rules and The Realities

 This appendix deals only with economic and accounting Goodwill – not the goodwill of everyday usage.  For example, a business may be well liked, even loved, by most of its customers but possess no economic goodwill.  (AT&T, before the breakup, was generally well thought of, but possessed not a dime of economic Goodwill.)  And, regrettably, a business may be disliked by its customers but possess substantial, and growing, economic Goodwill.  So, just for the moment, forget emotions and focus only on economics and accounting.

	When a business is purchased, accounting principles require that the purchase price first be assigned to the fair value of the identifiable assets that are acquired.  Frequently the sum of the fair values put on the assets (after the deduction of liabilities) is less than the total purchase price of the business.  In that case, the difference is assigned to an asset account entitled "excess of cost over equity in net assets acquired".  To avoid constant repetition of this mouthful, we will substitute "Goodwill".

	Accounting Goodwill arising from businesses purchased before November 1970 has a special standing.  Except under rare circumstances, it can remain an asset on the balance sheet as long as the business bought is retained.  That means no amortization charges to gradually extinguish that asset need be made against earnings.

	The case is different, however, with purchases made from November 1970 on.  When these create Goodwill, it must be amortized over not more than 40 years through charges – of equal amount in every year – to the earnings account.  Since 40 years is the maximum period allowed, 40 years is what managements (including us) usually elect.  This annual charge to earnings is not allowed as a tax deduction and, thus, has an effect on after-tax income that is roughly double that of most other expenses.

	That’s how accounting Goodwill works.  To see how it differs from economic reality, let’s look at an example close at hand.  We’ll round some figures, and greatly oversimplify, to make the example easier to follow.  We’ll also mention some implications for investors and managers.

	Blue Chip Stamps bought See’s early in 1972 for $25 million, at which time See’s had about $8 million of net tangible assets.  (Throughout this discussion, accounts receivable will be classified as tangible assets, a definition proper for business analysis.)  This level of tangible assets was adequate to conduct the business without use of debt, except for short periods seasonally.  See’s was earning about $2 million after tax at the time, and such earnings seemed conservatively representative of future earning power in constant 1972 dollars.

	Thus our first lesson:  businesses logically are worth far more than net tangible assets when they can be expected to produce earnings on such assets considerably in excess of market rates of return.  The capitalized value of this excess return is economic Goodwill.

	In 1972 (and now) relatively few businesses could be expected to consistently earn the 25% after tax on net tangible assets that was earned by See’s – doing it, furthermore, with conservative accounting and no financial leverage.  It was not the fair market value of the inventories, receivables or fixed assets that produced the premium rates of return.  Rather it was a combination of intangible assets, particularly a pervasive favorable reputation with consumers based upon countless pleasant experiences they have had with both product and personnel.

	Such a reputation creates a consumer franchise that allows the value of the product to the purchaser, rather than its production cost, to be the major determinant of selling price.  Consumer franchises are a prime source of economic Goodwill.  Other sources include governmental franchises not subject to profit regulation, such as television stations, and an enduring position as the low cost producer in an industry.

	Let’s return to the accounting in the See’s example.  Blue Chip’s purchase of See’s at $17 million over net tangible assets required that a Goodwill account of this amount be established as an asset on Blue Chip’s books and that $425,000 be charged to income annually for 40 years to amortize that asset.  By 1983, after 11 years of such charges, the $17 million had been reduced to about $12.5 million.  Berkshire, meanwhile, owned 60% of Blue Chip and, therefore, also 60% of See’s.  This ownership meant that Berkshire’s balance sheet reflected 60% of See’s Goodwill, or about $7.5 million.

	In 1983 Berkshire acquired the rest of Blue Chip in a merger that required purchase accounting as contrasted to the "pooling" treatment allowed for some mergers.  Under purchase accounting, the "fair value" of the shares we gave to (or "paid") Blue Chip holders had to be spread over the net assets acquired from Blue Chip.  This "fair value" was measured, as it almost always is when public companies use their shares to make acquisitions, by the market value of the shares given up.

	The assets "purchased" consisted of 40% of everything owned by Blue Chip (as noted, Berkshire already owned the other 60%).  What Berkshire "paid" was more than the net identifiable assets we received by $51.7 million, and was assigned to two pieces of Goodwill:  $28.4 million to See’s and $23.3 million to Buffalo Evening News.

	After the merger, therefore, Berkshire was left with a Goodwill asset for See’s that had two components:  the $7.5 million remaining from the 1971 purchase, and $28.4 million newly created by the 40% "purchased" in 1983.  Our amortization charge now will be about $1.0 million for the next 28 years, and $.7 million for the following 12 years, 2002 through 2013.

	In other words, different purchase dates and prices have given us vastly different asset values and amortization charges for two pieces of the same asset.  (We repeat our usual disclaimer:  we have no better accounting system to suggest.  The problems to be dealt with are mind boggling and require arbitrary rules.)

	But what are the economic realities?  One reality is that the amortization charges that have been deducted as costs in the earnings statement each year since acquisition of See’s were not true economic costs.  We know that because See’s last year earned $13 million after taxes on about $20 million of net tangible assets – a performance indicating the existence of economic Goodwill far larger than the total original cost of our accounting Goodwill.  In other words, while accounting Goodwill regularly decreased from the moment of purchase, economic Goodwill increased in irregular but very substantial fashion.

	Another reality is that annual amortization charges in the future will not correspond to economic costs.  It is possible, of course, that See’s economic Goodwill will disappear.  But it won’t shrink in even decrements or anything remotely resembling them.  What is more likely is that the Goodwill will increase – in current, if not in constant, dollars – because of inflation.

	That probability exists because true economic Goodwill tends to rise in nominal value proportionally with inflation.  To illustrate how this works, let’s contrast a See’s kind of business with a more mundane business.  When we purchased See’s in 1972, it will be recalled, it was earning about $2 million on $8 million of net tangible assets.  Let us assume that our hypothetical mundane business then had $2 million of earnings also, but needed $18 million in net tangible assets for normal operations.  Earning only 11% on required tangible assets, that mundane business would possess little or no economic Goodwill.

 
	A business like that, therefore, might well have sold for the value of its net tangible assets, or for $18 million.  In contrast, we paid $25 million for See’s, even though it had no more in earnings and less than half as much in "honest-to-God" assets.  Could less really have been more, as our purchase price implied?  The answer is "yes" – even if both businesses were expected to have flat unit volume – as long as you anticipated, as we did in 1972, a world of continuous inflation.

	To understand why, imagine the effect that a doubling of the price level would subsequently have on the two businesses.  Both would need to double their nominal earnings to $4 million to keep themselves even with inflation.  This would seem to be no great trick:  just sell the same number of units at double earlier prices and, assuming profit margins remain unchanged, profits also must double.

	But, crucially, to bring that about, both businesses probably would have to double their nominal investment in net tangible assets, since that is the kind of economic requirement that inflation usually imposes on businesses, both good and bad.  A doubling of dollar sales means correspondingly more dollars must be employed immediately in receivables and inventories.  Dollars employed in fixed assets will respond more slowly to inflation, but probably just as surely.  And all of this inflation-required investment will produce no improvement in rate of return.  The motivation for this investment is the survival of the business, not the prosperity of the owner.

	Remember, however, that See’s had net tangible assets of only $8 million.  So it would only have had to commit an additional $8 million to finance the capital needs imposed by inflation.  The mundane business, meanwhile, had a burden over twice as large – a need for $18 million of additional capital.

	After the dust had settled, the mundane business, now earning $4 million annually, might still be worth the value of its tangible assets, or $36 million.  That means its owners would have gained only a dollar of nominal value for every new dollar invested.  (This is the same dollar-for-dollar result they would have achieved if they had added money to a savings account.)

	See’s, however, also earning $4 million, might be worth $50 million if valued (as it logically would be) on the same basis as it was at the time of our purchase.  So it would have gained $25 million in nominal value while the owners were putting up only $8 million in additional capital – over $3 of nominal value gained for each $1 invested.

	Remember, even so, that the owners of the See’s kind of business were forced by inflation to ante up $8 million in additional capital just to stay even in real profits.  Any unleveraged business that requires some net tangible assets to operate (and almost all do) is hurt by inflation.  Businesses needing little in the way of tangible assets simply are hurt the least.

	And that fact, of course, has been hard for many people to grasp.  For years the traditional wisdom – long on tradition, short on wisdom – held that inflation protection was best provided by businesses laden with natural resources, plants and machinery, or other tangible assets ("In Goods We Trust").  It doesn’t work that way.  Asset-heavy businesses generally earn low rates of return – rates that often barely provide enough capital to fund the inflationary needs of the existing business, with nothing left over for real growth, for distribution to owners, or for acquisition of new businesses.

	In contrast, a disproportionate number of the great business fortunes built up during the inflationary years arose from ownership of operations that combined intangibles of lasting value with relatively minor requirements for tangible assets.  In such cases earnings have bounded upward in nominal dollars, and these dollars have been largely available for the acquisition of additional businesses.  This phenomenon has been particularly evident in the communications business.  That business has required little in the way of tangible investment – yet its franchises have endured.  During inflation, Goodwill is the gift that keeps giving.

 
	But that statement applies, naturally, only to true economic Goodwill.  Spurious accounting Goodwill – and there is plenty of it around – is another matter.  When an overexcited management purchases a business at a silly price, the same accounting niceties described earlier are observed.  Because it can’t go anywhere else, the silliness ends up in the Goodwill account.  Considering the lack of managerial discipline that created the account, under such circumstances it might better be labeled "No-Will".  Whatever the term, the 40-year ritual typically is observed and the adrenalin so capitalized remains on the books as an "asset" just as if the acquisition had been a sensible one.

*   *   *   *   * 
	If you cling to any belief that accounting treatment of Goodwill is the best measure of economic reality, I suggest one final item to ponder.

	Assume a company with $20 per share of net worth, all tangible assets.  Further assume the company has internally developed some magnificent consumer franchise, or that it was fortunate enough to obtain some important television stations by original FCC grant.  Therefore, it earns a great deal on tangible assets, say $5 per share, or 25%.

	With such economics, it might sell for $100 per share or more, and it might well also bring that price in a negotiated sale of the entire business.

	Assume an investor buys the stock at $100 per share, paying in effect $80 per share for Goodwill (just as would a corporate purchaser buying the whole company).  Should the investor impute a $2 per share amortization charge annually ($80 divided by 40 years) to calculate "true" earnings per share?  And, if so, should the new "true" earnings of $3 per share cause him to rethink his purchase price?

*   *   *   *   *
	We believe managers and investors alike should view intangible assets from two perspectives:



In analysis of operating results – that is, in evaluating the underlying economics of a business unit – amortization charges should be ignored.  What a business can be expected to earn on unleveraged net tangible assets, excluding any charges against earnings for amortization of Goodwill, is the best guide to the economic attractiveness of the operation.  It is also the best guide to the current value of the operation’s economic Goodwill.




In evaluating the wisdom of business acquisitions, amortization charges should be ignored also.  They should be deducted neither from earnings nor from the cost of the business.  This means forever viewing purchased Goodwill at its full cost, before any amortization.  Furthermore, cost should be defined as including the full intrinsic business value – not just the recorded accounting value – of all consideration given, irrespective of market prices of the securities involved at the time of merger and irrespective of whether pooling treatment was allowed.  For example, what we truly paid in the Blue Chip merger for 40% of the Goodwill of See’s and the News was considerably more than the $51.7 million entered on our books.  This disparity exists because the market value of the Berkshire shares given up in the merger was less than their intrinsic business value, which is the value that defines the true cost to us. 


	Operations that appear to be winners based upon perspective (1) may pale when viewed from perspective (2).  A good business is not always a good purchase – although it’s a good place to look for one.

 

 
	We will try to acquire businesses that have excellent operating economics measured by (1) and that provide reasonable returns measured by (2).  Accounting consequences will be totally ignored.

	At yearend 1983, net Goodwill on our accounting books totaled $62 million, consisting of the $79 million you see stated on the asset side of our balance sheet, and $17 million of negative Goodwill that is offset against the carrying value of our interest in Mutual Savings and Loan.

	We believe net economic Goodwill far exceeds the $62 million accounting number.

_____________






Chairman's Letter - 1984



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.



To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:

     Our gain in net worth during 1984 was $152.6 million, or 
$133 per share.  This sounds pretty good but actually it’s 
mediocre.  Economic gains must be evaluated by comparison with 
the capital that produces them.  Our twenty-year compounded 
annual gain in book value has been 22.1% (from $19.46 in 1964 to 
$1108.77 in 1984), but our gain in 1984 was only 13.6%.

     As we discussed last year, the gain in per-share intrinsic 
business value is the economic measurement that really counts.  
But calculations of intrinsic business value are subjective.  In 
our case, book value serves as a useful, although somewhat 
understated, proxy.  In my judgment, intrinsic business value and 
book value increased during 1984 at about the same rate.

     Using my academic voice, I have told you in the past of the 
drag that a mushrooming capital base exerts upon rates of return. 
Unfortunately, my academic voice is now giving way to a 
reportorial voice.  Our historical 22% rate is just that - 
history.  To earn even 15% annually over the next decade 
(assuming we continue to follow our present dividend policy, 
about which more will be said later in this letter) we would need 
profits aggregating about $3.9 billion.  Accomplishing this will 
require a few big ideas - small ones just won’t do.  Charlie 
Munger, my partner in general management, and I do not have any 
such ideas at present, but our experience has been that they pop 
up occasionally. (How’s that for a strategic plan?)

Sources of Reported Earnings

     The table on the following page shows the sources of 
Berkshire’s reported earnings.  Berkshire’s net ownership 
interest in many of the constituent businesses changed at midyear 
1983 when the Blue Chip merger took place.  Because of these 
changes, the first two columns of the table provide the best 
measure of underlying business performance.

     All of the significant gains and losses attributable to 
unusual sales of assets by any of the business entities are 
aggregated with securities transactions on the line near the 
bottom of the table, and are not included in operating earnings. 
(We regard any annual figure for realized capital gains or losses 
as meaningless, but we regard the aggregate realized and 
unrealized capital gains over a period of years as very 
important.) 

     Furthermore, amortization of Goodwill is not charged against 
the specific businesses but, for reasons outlined in the Appendix 
to my letter in the 1983 annual report, is set forth as a 
separate item.

                                                    (000s omitted)
                              ----------------------------------------------------------
                                                                         Net Earnings
                                   Earnings Before Income Taxes            After Tax
                              --------------------------------------  ------------------
                                    Total          Berkshire Share     Berkshire Share
                              ------------------  ------------------  ------------------
                                1984      1983      1984      1983      1984      1983
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Operating Earnings:
  Insurance Group:  
    Underwriting ............ $(48,060) $(33,872) $(48,060) $(33,872) $(25,955) $(18,400)
    Net Investment Income ...   68,903    43,810    68,903    43,810    62,059    39,114
  Buffalo News ..............   27,328    19,352    27,328    16,547    13,317     8,832
  Nebraska Furniture Mart(1)    14,511     3,812    11,609     3,049     5,917     1,521
  See’s Candies .............   26,644    27,411    26,644    24,526    13,380    12,212
  Associated Retail Stores ..   (1,072)      697    (1,072)      697      (579)      355
  Blue Chip Stamps(2)           (1,843)   (1,422)   (1,843)   (1,876)     (899)     (353)
  Mutual Savings and Loan ...    1,456      (798)    1,166      (467)    3,151     1,917
  Precision Steel ...........    4,092     3,241     3,278     2,102     1,696     1,136
  Textiles ..................      418      (100)      418      (100)      226       (63)
  Wesco Financial ...........    9,777     7,493     7,831     4,844     4,828     3,448
  Amortization of Goodwill ..   (1,434)     (532)   (1,434)     (563)   (1,434)     (563)
  Interest on Debt ..........  (14,734)  (15,104)  (14,097)  (13,844)   (7,452)   (7,346)
  Shareholder-Designated
     Contributions ..........   (3,179)   (3,066)   (3,179)   (3,066)   (1,716)   (1,656)
  Other .....................    4,932    10,121     4,529     9,623     3,476     8,490
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Operating Earnings ..........   87,739    61,043    82,021    51,410    70,015    48,644
Special GEICO Distribution ..     --      19,575      --      19,575      --      18,224
Special Gen. Foods Distribution  8,111      --       7,896      --       7,294      --
Sales of securities and
   unusual sales of assets ..  104,699    67,260   101,376    65,089    71,587    45,298
                              --------  --------  --------  --------  --------  --------
Total Earnings - all entities $200,549  $147,878  $191,293  $136,074  $148,896  $112,166
                              ========  ========  ========  ========  ========  ========

(1) 1983 figures are those for October through December.
(2) 1984 and 1983 are not comparable; major assets were                       
    transferred in the mid-year 1983 merger of Blue Chip Stamps.

     Sharp-eyed shareholders will notice that the amount of the 
special GEICO distribution and its location in the table have 
been changed from the presentation of last year.  Though they 
reclassify and reduce “accounting” earnings, the changes are 
entirely of form, not of substance.  The story behind the 
changes, however, is interesting.

     As reported last year: (1) in mid-1983 GEICO made a tender 
offer to buy its own shares; (2) at the same time, we agreed by 
written contract to sell GEICO an amount of its shares that would 
be proportionately related to the aggregate number of shares 
GEICO repurchased via the tender from all other shareholders; (3) 
at completion of the tender, we delivered 350,000 shares to 
GEICO, received $21 million cash, and were left owning exactly 
the same percentage of GEICO that we owned before the tender; (4) 
GEICO’s transaction with us amounted to a proportionate 
redemption, an opinion rendered us, without qualification, by a 
leading law firm; (5) the Tax Code logically regards such 
proportionate redemptions as substantially equivalent to 
dividends and, therefore, the $21 million we received was taxed 
at only the 6.9% inter-corporate dividend rate; (6) importantly, 
that $21 million was far less than the previously-undistributed 
earnings that had inured to our ownership in GEICO and, thus, 
from the standpoint of economic substance, was in our view 
equivalent to a dividend.

     Because it was material and unusual, we highlighted the 
GEICO distribution last year to you, both in the applicable 
quarterly report and in this section of the annual report.  
Additionally, we emphasized the transaction to our auditors, 
Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. Both the Omaha office of Peat 
Marwick and the reviewing Chicago partner, without objection, 
concurred with our dividend presentation.

     In 1984, we had a virtually identical transaction with 
General Foods.  The only difference was that General Foods 
repurchased its stock over a period of time in the open market, 
whereas GEICO had made a “one-shot” tender offer.  In the General 
Foods case we sold to the company, on each day that it 
repurchased shares, a quantity of shares that left our ownership 
percentage precisely unchanged.  Again our transaction was 
pursuant to a written contract executed before repurchases began.  
And again the money we received was far less than the retained 
earnings that had inured to our ownership interest since our 
purchase.  Overall we received $21,843,601 in cash from General 
Foods, and our ownership remained at exactly 8.75%.

     At this point the New York office of Peat Marwick came into 
the picture.  Late in 1984 it indicated that it disagreed with 
the conclusions of the firm’s Omaha office and Chicago reviewing 
partner.  The New York view was that the GEICO and General Foods 
transactions should be treated as sales of stock by Berkshire 
rather than as the receipt of dividends.  Under this accounting 
approach, a portion of the cost of our investment in the stock of 
each company would be charged against the redemption payment and 
any gain would be shown as a capital gain, not as dividend 
income.  This is an accounting approach only, having no bearing 
on taxes: Peat Marwick agrees that the transactions were 
dividends for IRS purposes.

     We disagree with the New York position from both the 
viewpoint of economic substance and proper accounting.  But, to 
avoid a qualified auditor’s opinion, we have adopted herein Peat 
Marwick’s 1984 view and restated 1983 accordingly.  None of this, 
however, has any effect on intrinsic business value: our 
ownership interests in GEICO and General Foods, our cash, our 
taxes, and the market value and tax basis of our holdings all 
remain the same.

     This year we have again entered into a contract with General 
Foods whereby we will sell them shares concurrently with open 
market purchases that they make.  The arrangement provides that 
our ownership interest will remain unchanged at all times.  By 
keeping it so, we will insure ourselves dividend treatment for 
tax purposes.  In our view also, the economic substance of this 
transaction again is the creation of dividend income.  However, 
we will account for the redemptions as sales of stock rather than 
dividend income unless accounting rules are adopted that speak 
directly to this point.  We will continue to prominently identify 
any such special transactions in our reports to you.

     While we enjoy a low tax charge on these proportionate 
redemptions, and have participated in several of them, we view 
such repurchases as at least equally favorable for shareholders 
who do not sell.  When companies with outstanding businesses and 
comfortable financial positions find their shares selling far 
below intrinsic value in the marketplace, no alternative action 
can benefit shareholders as surely as repurchases.

     (Our endorsement of repurchases is limited to those dictated 
by price/value relationships and does not extend to the 
“greenmail” repurchase - a practice we find odious and repugnant.  
In these transactions, two parties achieve their personal ends by 
exploitation of an innocent and unconsulted third party.  The 
players are: (1) the “shareholder” extortionist who, even before 
the ink on his stock certificate dries, delivers his “your-
money-or-your-life” message to managers; (2) the corporate 
insiders who quickly seek peace at any price - as long as the 
price is paid by someone else; and (3) the shareholders whose 
money is used by (2) to make (1) go away.  As the dust settles, 
the mugging, transient shareholder gives his speech on “free 
enterprise”, the muggee management gives its speech on “the best 
interests of the company”, and the innocent shareholder standing 
by mutely funds the payoff.)

     The companies in which we have our largest investments have 
all engaged in significant stock repurhases at times when wide 
discrepancies existed between price and value.  As shareholders, 
we find this encouraging and rewarding for two important reasons 
- one that is obvious, and one that is subtle and not always 
understood.  The obvious point involves basic arithmetic: major 
repurchases at prices well below per-share intrinsic business 
value immediately increase, in a highly significant way, that 
value.  When companies purchase their own stock, they often find 
it easy to get $2 of present value for $1.  Corporate acquisition 
programs almost never do as well and, in a discouragingly large 
number of cases, fail to get anything close to $1 of value for 
each $1 expended.

     The other benefit of repurchases is less subject to precise 
measurement but can be fully as important over time.  By making 
repurchases when a company’s market value is well below its 
business value, management clearly demonstrates that it is given 
to actions that enhance the wealth of shareholders, rather than 
to actions that expand management’s domain but that do nothing 
for (or even harm) shareholders.  Seeing this, shareholders and 
potential shareholders increase their estimates of future returns 
from the business.  This upward revision, in turn, produces 
market prices more in line with intrinsic business value.  These 
prices are entirely rational.  Investors should pay more for a 
business that is lodged in the hands of a manager with 
demonstrated pro-shareholder leanings than for one in the hands 
of a self-interested manager marching to a different drummer. (To 
make the point extreme, how much would you pay to be a minority 
shareholder of a company controlled by Robert Wesco?)

     The key word is “demonstrated”.  A manager who consistently 
turns his back on repurchases, when these clearly are in the 
interests of owners, reveals more than he knows of his 
motivations.  No matter how often or how eloquently he mouths 
some public relations-inspired phrase such as “maximizing 
shareholder wealth” (this season’s favorite), the market 
correctly discounts assets lodged with him.  His heart is not 
listening to his mouth - and, after a while, neither will the 
market.

     We have prospered in a very major way - as have other 
shareholders - by the large share repurchases of GEICO, 
Washington Post, and General Foods, our three largest holdings. 
(Exxon, in which we have our fourth largest holding, has also 
wisely and aggressively repurchased shares but, in this case, we 
have only recently established our position.) In each of these 
companies, shareholders have had their interests in outstanding 
businesses materially enhanced by repurchases made at bargain 
prices.  We feel very comfortable owning interests in businesses 
such as these that offer excellent economics combined with 
shareholder-conscious managements.

     The following table shows our 1984 yearend net holdings in 
marketable equities.  All numbers exclude the interests 
attributable to minority shareholders of Wesco and Nebraska 
Furniture Mart.


No. of Shares                                           Cost       Market
-------------                                        ----------  ----------
                                                         (000s omitted)
    690,975    Affiliated Publications, Inc. .......  $  3,516    $  32,908
    740,400    American Broadcasting Companies, Inc.    44,416       46,738
  3,895,710    Exxon Corporation ...................   173,401      175,307
  4,047,191    General Foods Corporation ...........   149,870      226,137
  6,850,000    GEICO Corporation ...................    45,713      397,300
  2,379,200    Handy & Harman ......................    27,318       38,662
    818,872    Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc.      2,570       28,149
    555,949    Northwest Industries                     26,581       27,242
  2,553,488    Time, Inc. ..........................    89,327      109,162
  1,868,600    The Washington Post Company .........    10,628      149,955
                                                     ----------  ----------
                                                      $573,340   $1,231,560
               All Other Common Stockholdings           11,634       37,326
                                                     ----------  ----------
               Total Common Stocks                    $584,974   $1,268,886
                                                     ==========  ==========

     It’s been over ten years since it has been as difficult as 
now to find equity investments that meet both our qualitative 
standards and our quantitative standards of value versus price.  
We try to avoid compromise of these standards, although we find 
doing nothing the most difficult task of all. (One English 
statesman attributed his country’s greatness in the nineteenth 
century to a policy of “masterly inactivity”.  This is a strategy 
that is far easier for historians to commend than for 
participants to follow.)

     In addition to the figures supplied at the beginning of this 
section, information regarding the businesses we own appears in 
Management’s Discussion on pages 42-47.  An amplified discussion 
of Wesco’s businesses appears in Charlie Munger’s report on pages 
50-59.  You will find particularly interesting his comments about 
conditions in the thrift industry.  Our other major controlled 
businesses are Nebraska Furniture Mart, See’s, Buffalo Evening 
News, and the Insurance Group, to which we will give some special 
attention here.

Nebraska Furniture Mart

     Last year I introduced you to Mrs. B (Rose Blumkin) and her 
family.  I told you they were terrific, and I understated the 
case.  After another year of observing their remarkable talents 
and character, I can honestly say that I never have seen a 
managerial group that either functions or behaves better than the 
Blumkin family.

     Mrs. B, Chairman of the Board, is now 91, and recently was 
quoted in the local newspaper as saying, “I come home to eat and 
sleep, and that’s about it.  I can’t wait until it gets daylight 
so I can get back to the business”.  Mrs. B is at the store seven 
days a week, from opening to close, and probably makes more 
decisions in a day than most CEOs do in a year (better ones, 
too).

     In May Mrs. B was granted an Honorary Doctorate in 
Commercial Science by New York University. (She’s a “fast track” 
student: not one day in her life was spent in a school room prior 
to her receipt of the doctorate.) Previous recipients of honorary 
degrees in business from NYU include Clifton Garvin, Jr., CEO of 
Exxon Corp.; Walter Wriston, then CEO of Citicorp; Frank Cary, 
then CEO of IBM; Tom Murphy, then CEO of General Motors; and, 
most recently, Paul Volcker. (They are in good company.)

     The Blumkin blood did not run thin.  Louie, Mrs. B’s son, 
and his three boys, Ron, Irv, and Steve, all contribute in full 
measure to NFM’s amazing success.  The younger generation has 
attended the best business school of them all - that conducted by 
Mrs. B and Louie - and their training is evident in their 
performance.

     Last year NFM’s net sales increased by $14.3 million, 
bringing the total to $115 million, all from the one store in 
Omaha.  That is by far the largest volume produced by a single 
home furnishings store in the United States.  In fact, the gain 
in sales last year was itself greater than the annual volume of 
many good-sized successful stores.  The business achieves this 
success because it deserves this success.  A few figures will 
tell you why.

     In its fiscal 1984 10-K, the largest independent specialty 
retailer of home furnishings in the country, Levitz Furniture, 
described its prices as “generally lower than the prices charged 
by conventional furniture stores in its trading area”.  Levitz, 
in that year, operated at a gross margin of 44.4% (that is, on 
average, customers paid it $100 for merchandise that had cost it 
$55.60 to buy).  The gross margin at NFM is not much more than 
half of that.  NFM’s low mark-ups are possible because of its 
exceptional efficiency: operating expenses (payroll, occupancy, 
advertising, etc.) are about 16.5% of sales versus 35.6% at 
Levitz.

     None of this is in criticism of Levitz, which has a well-
managed operation.  But the NFM operation is simply extraordinary 
(and, remember, it all comes from a $500 investment by Mrs. B in 
1937).  By unparalleled efficiency and astute volume purchasing, 
NFM is able to earn excellent returns on capital while saving its 
customers at least $30 million annually from what, on average, it 
would cost them to buy the same merchandise at stores maintaining 
typical mark-ups.  Such savings enable NFM to constantly widen 
its geographical reach and thus to enjoy growth well beyond the 
natural growth of the Omaha market.

     I have been asked by a number of people just what secrets 
the Blumkins bring to their business.  These are not very 
esoteric.  All members of the family: (1) apply themselves with 
an enthusiasm and energy that would make Ben Franklin and Horatio 
Alger look like dropouts; (2) define with extraordinary realism 
their area of special competence and act decisively on all 
matters within it; (3) ignore even the most enticing propositions 
failing outside of that area of special competence; and, (4) 
unfailingly behave in a high-grade manner with everyone they deal 
with. (Mrs.  B boils it down to “sell cheap and tell the truth”.)

     Our evaluation of the integrity of Mrs. B and her family was 
demonstrated when we purchased 90% of the business: NFM had never 
had an audit and we did not request one; we did not take an 
inventory nor verify the receivables; we did not check property 
titles.  We gave Mrs. B a check for $55 million and she gave us 
her word.  That made for an even exchange.

     You and I are fortunate to be in partnership with the 
Blumkin family.

See’s Candy Shops, Inc.

     Below is our usual recap of See’s performance since the time 
of purchase by Blue Chip Stamps:

  52-53 Week Year                     Operating     Number of    Number of
    Ended About           Sales        Profits      Pounds of   Stores Open
    December 31         Revenues     After Taxes   Candy Sold   at Year End
-------------------   ------------   -----------   ----------   -----------
1984 ..............   $135,946,000   $13,380,000   24,759,000       214
1983 (53 weeks) ...    133,531,000    13,699,000   24,651,000       207
1982 ..............    123,662,000    11,875,000   24,216,000       202
1981 ..............    112,578,000    10,779,000   24,052,000       199
1980 ..............     97,715,000     7,547,000   24,065,000       191
1979 ..............     87,314,000     6,330,000   23,985,000       188
1978 ..............     73,653,000     6,178,000   22,407,000       182
1977 ..............     62,886,000     6,154,000   20,921,000       179
1976 (53 weeks) ...     56,333,000     5,569,000   20,553,000       173
1975 ..............     50,492,000     5,132,000   19,134,000       172
1974 ..............     41,248,000     3,021,000   17,883,000       170
1973 ..............     35,050,000     1,940,000   17,813,000       169
1972 ..............     31,337,000     2,083,000   16,954,000       167

     This performance has not been produced by a generally rising 
tide.  To the contrary, many well-known participants in the 
boxed-chocolate industry either have lost money in this same 
period or have been marginally profitable.  To our knowledge, 
only one good-sized competitor has achieved high profitability.  
The success of See’s reflects the combination of an exceptional 
product and an exceptional manager, Chuck Huggins.

     During 1984 we increased prices considerably less than has 
been our practice in recent years: per-pound realization was 
$5.49, up only 1.4% from 1983.  Fortunately, we made good 
progress on cost control, an area that has caused us problems in 
recent years.  Per-pound costs - other than those for raw 
materials, a segment of expense largely outside of our control - 
increased by only 2.2% last year.

     Our cost-control problem has been exacerbated by the problem 
of modestly declining volume (measured by pounds, not dollars) on 
a same-store basis.  Total pounds sold through shops in recent 
years has been maintained at a roughly constant level only by the 
net addition of a few shops annually.  This more-shops-to-get-
the-same-volume situation naturally puts heavy pressure on per-
pound selling costs.

     In 1984, same-store volume declined 1.1%. Total shop volume, 
however, grew 0.6% because of an increase in stores. (Both 
percentages are adjusted to compensate for a 53-week fiscal year 
in 1983.)

     See’s business tends to get a bit more seasonal each year.  
In the four weeks prior to Christmas, we do 40% of the year’s 
volume and earn about 75% of the year’s profits.  We also earn 
significant sums in the Easter and Valentine’s Day periods, but 
pretty much tread water the rest of the year.  In recent years, 
shop volume at Christmas has grown in relative importance, and so 
have quantity orders and mail orders.  The increased 
concentration of business in the Christmas period produces a 
multitude of managerial problems, all of which have been handled 
by Chuck and his associates with exceptional skill and grace.

     Their solutions have in no way involved compromises in 
either quality of service or quality of product.  Most of our 
larger competitors could not say the same.  Though faced with 
somewhat less extreme peaks and valleys in demand than we, they 
add preservatives or freeze the finished product in order to 
smooth the production cycle and thereby lower unit costs.  We 
reject such techniques, opting, in effect, for production 
headaches rather than product modification.

     Our mall stores face a host of new food and snack vendors 
that provide particularly strong competition at non-holiday 
periods.  We need new products to fight back and during 1984 we 
introduced six candy bars that, overall, met with a good 
reception.  Further product introductions are planned.

     In 1985 we will intensify our efforts to keep per-pound cost 
increases below the rate of inflation.  Continued success in 
these efforts, however, will require gains in same-store 
poundage.  Prices in 1985 should average 6% - 7% above those of 
1984.  Assuming no change in same-store volume, profits should 
show a moderate gain.

Buffalo Evening News

     Profits at the News in 1984 were considerably greater than 
we expected.  As at See’s, excellent progress was made in 
controlling costs.  Excluding hours worked in the newsroom, total 
hours worked decreased by about 2.8%. With this productivity 
improvement, overall costs increased only 4.9%. This performance 
by Stan Lipsey and his management team was one of the best in the 
industry.

     However, we now face an acceleration in costs.  In mid-1984 
we entered into new multi-year union contracts that provided for 
a large “catch-up” wage increase.  This catch-up is entirely 
appropriate: the cooperative spirit of our unions during the 
unprofitable 1977-1982 period was an important factor in our 
success in remaining cost competitive with The Courier-Express.  
Had we not kept costs down, the outcome of that struggle might 
well have been different.

     Because our new union contracts took effect at varying 
dates, little of the catch-up increase was reflected in our 1984 
costs.  But the increase will be almost totally effective in 1985 
and, therefore, our unit labor costs will rise this year at a 
rate considerably greater than that of the industry.  We expect 
to mitigate this increase by continued small gains in 
productivity, but we cannot avoid significantly higher wage costs 
this year.  Newsprint price trends also are less favorable now 
than they were in 1984.  Primarily because of these two factors, 
we expect at least a minor contraction in margins at the News.

     Working in our favor at the News are two factors of major 
economic importance:

     (1) Our circulation is concentrated to an unusual degree 
         in the area of maximum utility to our advertisers.  
         “Regional” newspapers with wide-ranging circulation, on 
         the other hand, have a significant portion of their 
         circulation in areas that are of negligible utility to 
         most advertisers.  A subscriber several hundred miles 
         away is not much of a prospect for the puppy you are 
         offering to sell via a classified ad - nor for the 
         grocer with stores only in the metropolitan area.  
         “Wasted” circulation - as the advertisers call it - 
         hurts profitability: expenses of a newspaper are 
         determined largely by gross circulation while 
         advertising revenues (usually 70% - 80% of total 
         revenues) are responsive only to useful circulation; 

     (2) Our penetration of the Buffalo retail market is 
         exceptional; advertisers can reach almost all of their 
         potential customers using only the News.

     Last year I told you about this unusual reader acceptance: 
among the 100 largest newspapers in the country, we were then 
number one, daily, and number three, Sunday, in penetration.  The 
most recent figures show us number one in penetration on weekdays 
and number two on Sunday.  (Even so, the number of households in 
Buffalo has declined, so our current weekday circulation is down 
slightly; on Sundays it is unchanged.)

     I told you also that one of the major reasons for this 
unusual acceptance by readers was the unusual quantity of news 
that we delivered to them: a greater percentage of our paper is 
devoted to news than is the case at any other dominant paper in 
our size range.  In 1984 our “news hole” ratio was 50.9%, (versus 
50.4% in 1983), a level far above the typical 35% - 40%.  We will 
continue to maintain this ratio in the 50% area.  Also, though we 
last year reduced total hours worked in other departments, we 
maintained the level of employment in the newsroom and, again, 
will continue to do so.  Newsroom costs advanced 9.1% in 1984, a 
rise far exceeding our overall cost increase of 4.9%.

     Our news hole policy costs us significant extra money for 
newsprint.  As a result, our news costs (newsprint for the news 
hole plus payroll and expenses of the newsroom) as a percentage 
of revenue run higher than those of most dominant papers of our 
size.  There is adequate room, however, for our paper or any 
other dominant paper to sustain these costs: the difference 
between “high” and “low” news costs at papers of comparable size 
runs perhaps three percentage points while pre-tax profit margins 
are often ten times that amount.

     The economics of a dominant newspaper are excellent, among 
the very best in the business world.  Owners, naturally, would 
like to believe that their wonderful profitability is achieved 
only because they unfailingly turn out a wonderful product.  That 
comfortable theory wilts before an uncomfortable fact.  While 
first-class newspapers make excellent profits, the profits of 
third-rate papers are as good or better - as long as either class 
of paper is dominant within its community.  Of course, product 
quality may have been crucial to the paper in achieving 
dominance.  We believe this was the case at the News, in very 
large part because of people such as Alfred Kirchhofer who 
preceded us.

     Once dominant, the newspaper itself, not the marketplace, 
determines just how good or how bad the paper will be.  Good or 
bad, it will prosper.  That is not true of most businesses: 
inferior quality generally produces inferior economics.  But even 
a poor newspaper is a bargain to most citizens simply because of 
its “bulletin board” value.  Other things being equal, a poor 
product will not achieve quite the level of readership achieved 
by a first-class product.  A poor product, however, will still 
remain essential to most citizens, and what commands their 
attention will command the attention of advertisers.

     Since high standards are not imposed by the marketplace, 
management must impose its own.  Our commitment to an above-
average expenditure for news represents an important quantitative 
standard.  We have confidence that Stan Lipsey and Murray Light 
will continue to apply the far-more important qualitative 
standards.  Charlie and I believe that newspapers are very 
special institutions in society.  We are proud of the News, and 
intend an even greater pride to be justified in the years ahead.

Insurance Operations

     Shown below is an updated version of our usual table listing 
two key figures for the insurance industry:

                                    Yearly Change       Combined Ratio
                                     in Premiums      after Policy-holder
                                     Written (%)           Dividends
                                    -------------     -------------------
1972 ..............................     10.2                  96.2
1973 ..............................      8.0                  99.2
1974 ..............................      6.2                 105.4
1975 ..............................     11.0                 107.9
1976 ..............................     21.9                 102.4
1977 ..............................     19.8                  97.2
1978 ..............................     12.8                  97.5
1979 ..............................     10.3                 100.6
1980 ..............................      6.0                 103.1
1981 ..............................      3.9                 106.0
1982 ..............................      4.4                 109.7
1983 (Revised) ....................      4.5                 111.9
1984 (Estimated) ..................      8.1                 117.7
Source: Best’s Aggregates and Averages

     Best’s data reflect the experience of practically the entire 
industry, including stock, mutual, and reciprocal companies.  The 
combined ratio represents total insurance costs (losses incurred 
plus expenses) compared to revenue from premiums; a ratio below 
100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 100 indicates 
a loss.

     For a number of years, we have told you that an annual 
increase by the industry of about 10% per year in premiums 
written is necessary for the combined ratio to remain roughly 
unchanged.  We assumed in making that assertion that expenses as 
a percentage of premium volume would stay relatively stable and 
that losses would grow at about 10% annually because of the 
combined influence of unit volume increases, inflation, and 
judicial rulings that expand what is covered by the insurance 
policy.

     Our opinion is proving dismayingly accurate: a premium 
increase of 10% per year since 1979 would have produced an 
aggregate increase through 1984 of 61% and a combined ratio in 
1984 almost identical to the 100.6 of 1979.  Instead, the 
industry had only a 30% increase in premiums and a 1984 combined 
ratio of 117.7. Today, we continue to believe that the key index 
to the trend of underwriting profitability is the year-to-year 
percentage change in industry premium volume.

     It now appears that premium volume in 1985 will grow well 
over 10%.  Therefore, assuming that catastrophes are at a 
“normal” level, we would expect the combined ratio to begin 
easing downward toward the end of the year.  However, under our 
industrywide loss assumptions (i.e., increases of 10% annually), 
five years of 15%-per-year increases in premiums would be 
required to get the combined ratio back to 100.  This would mean 
a doubling of industry volume by 1989, an outcome that seems 
highly unlikely to us.  Instead, we expect several years of 
premium gains somewhat above the 10% level, followed by highly-
competitive pricing that generally will produce combined ratios 
in the 108-113 range.

     Our own combined ratio in 1984 was a humbling 134. (Here, as 
throughout this report, we exclude structured settlements and the 
assumption of loss reserves in reporting this ratio.  Much 
additional detail, including the effect of discontinued 
operations on the ratio, appears on pages 42-43).  This is the 
third year in a row that our underwriting performance has been 
far poorer than that of the industry.  We expect an improvement 
in the combined ratio in 1985, and also expect our improvement to 
be substantially greater than that of the industry.  Mike 
Goldberg has corrected many of the mistakes I made before he took 
over insurance operations.  Moreover, our business is 
concentrated in lines that have experienced poorer-than-average 
results during the past several years, and that circumstance has 
begun to subdue many of our competitors and even eliminate some.  
With the competition shaken, we were able during the last half of 
1984 to raise prices significantly in certain important lines 
with little loss of business.

     For some years I have told you that there could be a day 
coming when our premier financial strength would make a real 
difference in the competitive position of our insurance 
operation.  That day may have arrived.  We are almost without 
question the strongest property/casualty insurance operation in 
the country, with a capital position far superior to that of 
well-known companies of much greater size.

     Equally important, our corporate policy is to retain that 
superiority.  The buyer of insurance receives only a promise in 
exchange for his cash.  The value of that promise should be 
appraised against the possibility of adversity, not prosperity.  
At a minimum, the promise should appear able to withstand a 
prolonged combination of depressed financial markets and 
exceptionally unfavorable underwriting results.  Our insurance 
subsidiaries are both willing and able to keep their promises in 
any such environment - and not too many other companies clearly 
are.

     Our financial strength is a particular asset in the business 
of structured settlements and loss reserve assumptions that we 
reported on last year.  The claimant in a structured settlement 
and the insurance company that has reinsured loss reserves need 
to be completely confident that payments will be forthcoming for 
decades to come.  Very few companies in the property/casualty 
field can meet this test of unquestioned long-term strength. (In 
fact, only a handful of companies exists with which we will 
reinsure our own liabilities.)

     We have grown in these new lines of business: funds that we 
hold to offset assumed liabilities grew from $16.2 million to 
$30.6 million during the year.  We expect growth to continue and 
perhaps to greatly accelerate.  To support this projected growth 
we have added substantially to the capital of Columbia Insurance 
Company, our reinsurance unit specializing in structured 
settlements and loss reserve assumptions.  While these businesses 
are very competitive, returns should be satisfactory.

     At GEICO the news, as usual, is mostly good.  That company 
achieved excellent unit growth in its primary insurance business 
during 1984, and the performance of its investment portfolio 
continued to be extraordinary.  Though underwriting results 
deteriorated late in the year, they still remain far better than 
those of the industry.  Our ownership in GEICO at yearend 
amounted to 36% and thus our interest in their direct 
property/casualty volume of $885 million amounted to $320 
million, or well over double our own premium volume.

     I have reported to you in the past few years that the 
performance of GEICO’s stock has considerably exceeded that 
company’s business performance, brilliant as the latter has been.  
In those years, the carrying value of our GEICO investment on our 
balance sheet grew at a rate greater than the growth in GEICO’s 
intrinsic business value.  I warned you that over performance by 
the stock relative to the performance of the business obviously 
could not occur every year, and that in some years the stock must 
under perform the business.  In 1984 that occurred and the 
carrying value of our interest in GEICO changed hardly at all, 
while the intrinsic business value of that interest increased 
substantially.  Since 27% of Berkshire’s net worth at the 
beginning of 1984 was represented by GEICO, its static market 
value had a significant impact upon our rate of gain for the 
year.  We are not at all unhappy with such a result: we would far 
rather have the business value of GEICO increase by X during the 
year, while market value decreases, than have the intrinsic value 
increase by only 1/2 X with market value soaring.  In GEICO’s 
case, as in all of our investments, we look to business 
performance, not market performance.  If we are correct in 
expectations regarding the business, the market eventually will 
follow along.

     You, as shareholders of Berkshire, have benefited in 
enormous measure from the talents of GEICO’s Jack Byrne, Bill 
Snyder, and Lou Simpson.  In its core business - low-cost auto 
and homeowners insurance - GEICO has a major, sustainable 
competitive advantage.  That is a rare asset in business 
generally, and it’s almost non-existent in the field of financial 
services. (GEICO, itself, illustrates this point: despite the 
company’s excellent management, superior profitability has eluded 
GEICO in all endeavors other than its core business.) In a large 
industry, a competitive advantage such as GEICO’s provides the 
potential for unusual economic rewards, and Jack and Bill 
continue to exhibit great skill in realizing that potential.

     Most of the funds generated by GEICO’s core insurance 
operation are made available to Lou for investment.  Lou has the 
rare combination of temperamental and intellectual 
characteristics that produce outstanding long-term investment 
performance.  Operating with below-average risk, he has generated 
returns that have been by far the best in the insurance industry.  
I applaud and appreciate the efforts and talents of these three 
outstanding managers.

Errors in Loss Reserving

     Any shareholder in a company with important interests in the 
property/casualty insurance business should have some 
understanding of the weaknesses inherent in the reporting of 
current earnings in that industry.  Phil Graham, when publisher 
of the Washington Post, described the daily newspaper as “a first 
rough draft of history”.  Unfortunately, the financial statements 
of a property/casualty insurer provide, at best, only a first 
rough draft of earnings and financial condition.

     The determination of costs is the main problem.  Most of an 
insurer’s costs result from losses on claims, and many of the 
losses that should be charged against the current year’s revenue 
are exceptionally difficult to estimate.  Sometimes the extent of 
these losses, or even their existence, is not known for decades.

     The loss expense charged in a property/casualty company’s 
current income statement represents: (1) losses that occurred and 
were paid during the year; (2) estimates for losses that occurred 
and were reported to the insurer during the year, but which have 
yet to be settled; (3) estimates of ultimate dollar costs for 
losses that occurred during the year but of which the insurer is 
unaware (termed “IBNR”: incurred but not reported); and (4) the 
net effect of revisions this year of similar estimates for (2) 
and (3) made in past years.

     Such revisions may be long delayed, but eventually any 
estimate of losses that causes the income for year X to be 
misstated must be corrected, whether it is in year X + 1, or     
X + 10.  This, perforce, means that earnings in the year of 
correction also are misstated.  For example, assume a claimant 
was injured by one of our insureds in 1979 and we thought a 
settlement was likely to be made for $10,000.  That year we would 
have charged $10,000 to our earnings statement for the estimated 
cost of the loss and, correspondingly, set up a liability reserve 
on the balance sheet for that amount.  If we settled the claim in 
1984 for $100,000, we would charge earnings with a loss cost of 
$90,000 in 1984, although that cost was truly an expense of 1979.  
And if that piece of business was our only activity in 1979, we 
would have badly misled ourselves as to costs, and you as to 
earnings.

     The necessarily-extensive use of estimates in assembling the 
figures that appear in such deceptively precise form in the 
income statement of property/casualty companies means that some 
error must seep in, no matter how proper the intentions of 
management.  In an attempt to minimize error, most insurers use 
various statistical techniques to adjust the thousands of 
individual loss evaluations (called case reserves) that comprise 
the raw data for estimation of aggregate liabilities.  The extra 
reserves created by these adjustments are variously labeled 
“bulk”, “development”, or “supplemental” reserves.  The goal of 
the adjustments should be a loss-reserve total that has a 50-50 
chance of being proved either slightly too high or slightly too 
low when all losses that occurred prior to the date of the 
financial statement are ultimately paid.

     At Berkshire, we have added what we thought were appropriate 
supplemental reserves but in recent years they have not been 
adequate.  It is important that you understand the magnitude of 
the errors that have been involved in our reserving.  You can 
thus see for yourselves just how imprecise the process is, and 
also judge whether we may have some systemic bias that should 
make you wary of our current and future figures.

     The following table shows the results from insurance 
underwriting as we have reported them to you in recent years, and 
also gives you calculations a year later on an “if-we-knew-then-
what-we think-we-know-now” basis.  I say “what we think we know 
now” because the adjusted figures still include a great many 
estimates for losses that occurred in the earlier years.  
However, many claims from the earlier years have been settled so 
that our one-year-later estimate contains less guess work than 
our earlier estimate:

                Underwriting Results       Corrected Figures
                    as Reported            After One Year’s
     Year              to You                 Experience
     ----       --------------------       -----------------
     1980           $  6,738,000             $ 14,887,000
     1981              1,478,000               (1,118,000)
     1982            (21,462,000)             (25,066,000)
     1983            (33,192,000)             (50,974,000)
     1984            (45,413,000)                  ?

     Our structured settlement and loss-reserve assumption 
     businesses are not included in this table.  Important 
     additional information on loss reserve experience appears 
     on pages 43-45.

     To help you understand this table, here is an explanation of 
the most recent figures: 1984’s reported pre-tax underwriting 
loss of $45.4 million consists of $27.6 million we estimate that 
we lost on 1984’s business, plus the increased loss of $17.8 
million reflected in the corrected figure for 1983.

     As you can see from reviewing the table, my errors in 
reporting to you have been substantial and recently have always 
presented a better underwriting picture than was truly the case.  
This is a source of particular chagrin to me because: (1) I like 
for you to be able to count on what I say; (2) our insurance 
managers and I undoubtedly acted with less urgency than we would 
have had we understood the full extent of our losses; and (3) we 
paid income taxes calculated on overstated earnings and thereby 
gave the government money that we didn’t need to.  (These 
overpayments eventually correct themselves, but the delay is long 
and we don’t receive interest on the amounts we overpaid.)

     Because our business is weighted toward casualty and 
reinsurance lines, we have more problems in estimating loss costs 
than companies that specialize in property insurance. (When a 
building that you have insured burns down, you get a much faster 
fix on your costs than you do when an employer you have insured 
finds out that one of his retirees has contracted a disease 
attributable to work he did decades earlier.) But I still find 
our errors embarrassing.  In our direct business, we have far 
underestimated the mushrooming tendency of juries and courts to 
make the “deep pocket” pay, regardless of the factual situation 
and the past precedents for establishment of liability.  We also 
have underestimated the contagious effect that publicity 
regarding giant awards has on juries.  In the reinsurance area, 
where we have had our worst experience in under reserving, our 
customer insurance companies have made the same mistakes.  Since 
we set reserves based on information they supply us, their 
mistakes have become our mistakes.

     I heard a story recently that is applicable to our insurance 
accounting problems: a man was traveling abroad when he received 
a call from his sister informing him that their father had died 
unexpectedly.  It was physically impossible for the brother to 
get back home for the funeral, but he told his sister to take 
care of the funeral arrangements and to send the bill to him.  
After returning home he received a bill for several thousand 
dollars, which he promptly paid.  The following month another 
bill came along for $15, and he paid that too.  Another month 
followed, with a similar bill.  When, in the next month, a third 
bill for $15 was presented, he called his sister to ask what was 
going on.  “Oh”, she said.  “I forgot to tell you.  We buried Dad 
in a rented suit.”

     If you’ve been in the insurance business in recent years - 
particularly the reinsurance business - this story hurts.  We 
have tried to include all of our “rented suit” liabilities in our 
current financial statement, but our record of past error should 
make us humble, and you suspicious.  I will continue to report to 
you the errors, plus or minus, that surface each year.

     Not all reserving errors in the industry have been of the 
innocent-but-dumb variety.  With underwriting results as bad as 
they have been in recent years - and with managements having as 
much discretion as they do in the presentation of financial 
statements - some unattractive aspects of human nature have 
manifested themselves.  Companies that would be out of business 
if they realistically appraised their loss costs have, in some 
cases, simply preferred to take an extraordinarily optimistic 
view about these yet-to-be-paid sums.  Others have engaged in 
various transactions to hide true current loss costs.

     Both of these approaches can “work” for a considerable time: 
external auditors cannot effectively police the financial 
statements of property/casualty insurers.  If liabilities of an 
insurer, correctly stated, would exceed assets, it falls to the 
insurer to volunteer this morbid information.  In other words, 
the corpse is supposed to file the death certificate.  Under this 
“honor system” of mortality, the corpse sometimes gives itself 
the benefit of the doubt.

     In most businesses, of course, insolvent companies run out 
of cash.  Insurance is different: you can be broke but flush.  
Since cash comes in at the inception of an insurance policy and 
losses are paid much later, insolvent insurers don’t run out of 
cash until long after they have run out of net worth.  In fact, 
these “walking dead” often redouble their efforts to write 
business, accepting almost any price or risk, simply to keep the 
cash flowing in.  With an attitude like that of an embezzler who 
has gambled away his purloined funds, these companies hope that 
somehow they can get lucky on the next batch of business and 
thereby cover up earlier shortfalls.  Even if they don’t get 
lucky, the penalty to managers is usually no greater for a $100 
million shortfall than one of $10 million; in the meantime, while 
the losses mount, the managers keep their jobs and perquisites.

     The loss-reserving errors of other property/casualty 
companies are of more than academic interest to Berkshire.  Not 
only does Berkshire suffer from sell-at-any-price competition by 
the “walking dead”, but we also suffer when their insolvency is 
finally acknowledged.  Through various state guarantee funds that 
levy assessments, Berkshire ends up paying a portion of the 
insolvent insurers’ asset deficiencies, swollen as they usually 
are by the delayed detection that results from wrong reporting.  
There is even some potential for cascading trouble.  The 
insolvency of a few large insurers and the assessments by state 
guarantee funds that would follow could imperil weak-but-
previously-solvent insurers.  Such dangers can be mitigated if 
state regulators become better at prompt identification and 
termination of insolvent insurers, but progress on that front has 
been slow.

Washington Public Power Supply System

     From October, 1983 through June, 1984 Berkshire’s insurance 
subsidiaries continuously purchased large quantities of bonds of 
Projects 1, 2, and 3 of Washington Public Power Supply System 
(“WPPSS”).  This is the same entity that, on July 1, 1983, 
defaulted on $2.2 billion of bonds issued to finance partial 
construction of the now-abandoned Projects 4 and 5. While there 
are material differences in the obligors, promises, and 
properties underlying the two categories of bonds, the problems 
of Projects 4 and 5 have cast a major cloud over Projects 1, 2, 
and 3, and might possibly cause serious problems for the latter 
issues.  In addition, there have been a multitude of problems 
related directly to Projects 1, 2, and 3 that could weaken or 
destroy an otherwise strong credit position arising from 
guarantees by Bonneville Power Administration.

     Despite these important negatives, Charlie and I judged the 
risks at the time we purchased the bonds and at the prices 
Berkshire paid (much lower than present prices) to be 
considerably more than compensated for by prospects of profit.

     As you know, we buy marketable stocks for our insurance 
companies based upon the criteria we would apply in the purchase 
of an entire business.  This business-valuation approach is not 
widespread among professional money managers and is scorned by 
many academics.  Nevertheless, it has served its followers well 
(to which the academics seem to say, “Well, it may be all right 
in practice, but it will never work in theory.”) Simply put, we 
feel that if we can buy small pieces of businesses with 
satisfactory underlying economics at a fraction of the per-share 
value of the entire business, something good is likely to happen 
to us - particularly if we own a group of such securities.

     We extend this business-valuation approach even to bond 
purchases such as WPPSS.  We compare the $139 million cost of our 
yearend investment in WPPSS to a similar $139 million investment 
in an operating business.  In the case of WPPSS, the “business” 
contractually earns $22.7 million after tax (via the interest 
paid on the bonds), and those earnings are available to us 
currently in cash.  We are unable to buy operating businesses 
with economics close to these.  Only a relatively few businesses 
earn the 16.3% after tax on unleveraged capital that our WPPSS 
investment does and those businesses, when available for 
purchase, sell at large premiums to that capital.  In the average 
negotiated business transaction, unleveraged corporate earnings 
of $22.7 million after-tax (equivalent to about $45 million pre-
tax) might command a price of $250 - $300 million (or sometimes 
far more).  For a business we understand well and strongly like, 
we will gladly pay that much.  But it is double the price we paid 
to realize the same earnings from WPPSS bonds.

     However, in the case of WPPSS, there is what we view to be a 
very slight risk that the “business” could be worth nothing 
within a year or two.  There also is the risk that interest 
payments might be interrupted for a considerable period of time.  
Furthermore, the most that the “business” could be worth is about 
the $205 million face value of the bonds that we own, an amount 
only 48% higher than the price we paid.

     This ceiling on upside potential is an important minus.  It 
should be realized, however, that the great majority of operating 
businesses have a limited upside potential also unless more 
capital is continuously invested in them.  That is so because 
most businesses are unable to significantly improve their average 
returns on equity - even under inflationary conditions, though 
these were once thought to automatically raise returns.

     (Let’s push our bond-as-a-business example one notch 
further: if you elect to “retain” the annual earnings of a 12% 
bond by using the proceeds from coupons to buy more bonds, 
earnings of that bond “business” will grow at a rate comparable 
to that of most operating businesses that similarly reinvest all 
earnings.  In the first instance, a 30-year, zero-coupon, 12% 
bond purchased today for $10 million will be worth $300 million 
in 2015.  In the second, a $10 million business that regularly 
earns 12% on equity and retains all earnings to grow, will also 
end up with $300 million of capital in 2015.  Both the business 
and the bond will earn over $32 million in the final year.)

     Our approach to bond investment - treating it as an unusual 
sort of “business” with special advantages and disadvantages - 
may strike you as a bit quirky.  However, we believe that many 
staggering errors by investors could have been avoided if they 
had viewed bond investment with a businessman’s perspective.  For 
example, in 1946, 20-year AAA tax-exempt bonds traded at slightly 
below a 1% yield.  In effect, the buyer of those bonds at that 
time bought a “business” that earned about 1% on “book value” 
(and that, moreover, could never earn a dime more than 1% on 
book), and paid 100 cents on the dollar for that abominable 
business.

     If an investor had been business-minded enough to think in 
those terms - and that was the precise reality of the bargain 
struck - he would have laughed at the proposition and walked 
away.  For, at the same time, businesses with excellent future 
prospects could have been bought at, or close to, book value 
while earning 10%, 12%, or 15% after tax on book.  Probably no 
business in America changed hands in 1946 at book value that the 
buyer believed lacked the ability to earn more than 1% on book.  
But investors with bond-buying habits eagerly made economic 
commitments throughout the year on just that basis.  Similar, 
although less extreme, conditions prevailed for the next two 
decades as bond investors happily signed up for twenty or thirty 
years on terms outrageously inadequate by business standards. 
(In what I think is by far the best book on investing ever 
written - “The Intelligent Investor”, by Ben Graham - the last 
section of the last chapter begins with, “Investment is most 
intelligent when it is most businesslike.” This section is called 
“A Final Word”, and it is appropriately titled.)

     We will emphasize again that there is unquestionably some 
risk in the WPPSS commitment.  It is also the sort of risk that 
is difficult to evaluate.  Were Charlie and I to deal with 50 
similar evaluations over a lifetime, we would expect our judgment 
to prove reasonably satisfactory.  But we do not get the chance 
to make 50 or even 5 such decisions in a single year.  Even 
though our long-term results may turn out fine, in any given year 
we run a risk that we will look extraordinarily foolish. (That’s 
why all of these sentences say “Charlie and I”, or “we”.)

     Most managers have very little incentive to make the 
intelligent-but-with-some-chance-of-looking-like-an-idiot 
decision.  Their personal gain/loss ratio is all too obvious: if 
an unconventional decision works out well, they get a pat on the 
back and, if it works out poorly, they get a pink slip. (Failing 
conventionally is the route to go; as a group, lemmings may have 
a rotten image, but no individual lemming has ever received bad 
press.)

     Our equation is different.  With 47% of Berkshire’s stock, 
Charlie and I don’t worry about being fired, and we receive our 
rewards as owners, not managers.  Thus we behave with Berkshire’s 
money as we would with our own.  That frequently leads us to 
unconventional behavior both in investments and general business 
management.

     We remain unconventional in the degree to which we 
concentrate the investments of our insurance companies, including 
those in WPPSS bonds.  This concentration makes sense only 
because our insurance business is conducted from a position of 
exceptional financial strength.  For almost all other insurers, a 
comparable degree of concentration (or anything close to it) 
would be totally inappropriate.  Their capital positions are not 
strong enough to withstand a big error, no matter how attractive 
an investment opportunity might appear when analyzed on the basis 
of probabilities.

     With our financial strength we can own large blocks of a few 
securities that we have thought hard about and bought at 
attractive prices. (Billy Rose described the problem of over-
diversification: “If you have a harem of forty women, you never 
get to know any of them very well.”) Over time our policy of 
concentration should produce superior results, though these will 
be tempered by our large size.  When this policy produces a 
really bad year, as it must, at least you will know that our 
money was committed on the same basis as yours.

     We made the major part of our WPPSS investment at different 
prices and under somewhat different factual circumstances than 
exist at present.  If we decide to change our position, we will 
not inform shareholders until long after the change has been 
completed. (We may be buying or selling as you read this.) The 
buying and selling of securities is a competitive business, and 
even a modest amount of added competition on either side can cost 
us a great deal of money.  Our WPPSS purchases illustrate this 
principle.  From October, 1983 through June, 1984, we attempted 
to buy almost all the bonds that we could of Projects 1, 2, and 
3. Yet we purchased less than 3% of the bonds outstanding.  Had 
we faced even a few additional well-heeled investors, stimulated 
to buy because they knew we were, we could have ended up with a 
materially smaller amount of bonds, purchased at a materially 
higher price. (A couple of coat-tail riders easily could have 
cost us $5 million.) For this reason, we will not comment about 
our activities in securities - neither to the press, nor 
shareholders, nor to anyone else - unless legally required to do 
so.

     One final observation regarding our WPPSS purchases: we 
dislike the purchase of most long-term bonds under most 
circumstances and have bought very few in recent years.  That’s 
because bonds are as sound as a dollar - and we view the long-
term outlook for dollars as dismal.  We believe substantial 
inflation lies ahead, although we have no idea what the average 
rate will turn out to be.  Furthermore, we think there is a 
small, but not insignificant, chance of runaway inflation.

     Such a possibility may seem absurd, considering the rate to 
which inflation has dropped.  But we believe that present fiscal 
policy - featuring a huge deficit - is both extremely dangerous 
and difficult to reverse. (So far, most politicians in both 
parties have followed Charlie Brown’s advice: “No problem is so 
big that it can’t be run away from.”) Without a reversal, high 
rates of inflation may be delayed (perhaps for a long time), but 
will not be avoided.  If high rates materialize, they bring with 
them the potential for a runaway upward spiral.

     While there is not much to choose between bonds and stocks 
(as a class) when annual inflation is in the 5%-10% range, 
runaway inflation is a different story.  In that circumstance, a 
diversified stock portfolio would almost surely suffer an 
enormous loss in real value.  But bonds already outstanding would 
suffer far more.  Thus, we think an all-bond portfolio carries a 
small but unacceptable “wipe out” risk, and we require any 
purchase of long-term bonds to clear a special hurdle.  Only when 
bond purchases appear decidedly superior to other business 
opportunities will we engage in them.  Those occasions are likely 
to be few and far between.

Dividend Policy

     Dividend policy is often reported to shareholders, but 
seldom explained.  A company will say something like, “Our goal 
is to pay out 40% to 50% of earnings and to increase dividends at 
a rate at least equal to the rise in the CPI”.  And that’s it - 
no analysis will be supplied as to why that particular policy is 
best for the owners of the business.  Yet, allocation of capital 
is crucial to business and investment management.  Because it is, 
we believe managers and owners should think hard about the 
circumstances under which earnings should be retained and under 
which they should be distributed.

     The first point to understand is that all earnings are not 
created equal.  In many businesses particularly those that have 
high asset/profit ratios - inflation causes some or all of the 
reported earnings to become ersatz.  The ersatz portion - let’s 
call these earnings “restricted” - cannot, if the business is to 
retain its economic position, be distributed as dividends.  Were 
these earnings to be paid out, the business would lose ground in 
one or more of the following areas: its ability to maintain its 
unit volume of sales, its long-term competitive position, its 
financial strength.  No matter how conservative its payout ratio, 
a company that consistently distributes restricted earnings is 
destined for oblivion unless equity capital is otherwise infused.

     Restricted earnings are seldom valueless to owners, but they 
often must be discounted heavily.  In effect, they are 
conscripted by the business, no matter how poor its economic 
potential. (This retention-no-matter-how-unattractive-the-return 
situation was communicated unwittingly in a marvelously ironic 
way by Consolidated Edison a decade ago.  At the time, a punitive 
regulatory policy was a major factor causing the company’s stock 
to sell as low as one-fourth of book value; i.e., every time a 
dollar of earnings was retained for reinvestment in the business, 
that dollar was transformed into only 25 cents of market value.  
But, despite this gold-into-lead process, most earnings were 
reinvested in the business rather than paid to owners.  
Meanwhile, at construction and maintenance sites throughout New 
York, signs proudly proclaimed the corporate slogan, “Dig We 
Must”.)

     Restricted earnings need not concern us further in this 
dividend discussion.  Let’s turn to the much-more-valued 
unrestricted variety.  These earnings may, with equal 
feasibility, be retained or distributed.  In our opinion, 
management should choose whichever course makes greater sense for 
the owners of the business.

     This principle is not universally accepted.  For a number of 
reasons managers like to withhold unrestricted, readily 
distributable earnings from shareholders - to expand the 
corporate empire over which the managers rule, to operate from a 
position of exceptional financial comfort, etc.  But we believe 
there is only one valid reason for retention.  Unrestricted 
earnings should be retained only when there is a reasonable 
prospect - backed preferably by historical evidence or, when 
appropriate, by a thoughtful analysis of the future - that for 
every dollar retained by the corporation, at least one dollar of 
market value will be created for owners.  This will happen only 
if the capital retained produces incremental earnings equal to, 
or above, those generally available to investors.

     To illustrate, let’s assume that an investor owns a risk-
free 10% perpetual bond with one very unusual feature.  Each year 
the investor can elect either to take his 10% coupon in cash, or 
to reinvest the coupon in more 10% bonds with identical terms; 
i.e., a perpetual life and coupons offering the same cash-or-
reinvest option.  If, in any given year, the prevailing interest 
rate on long-term, risk-free bonds is 5%, it would be foolish for 
the investor to take his coupon in cash since the 10% bonds he 
could instead choose would be worth considerably more than 100 
cents on the dollar.  Under these circumstances, the investor 
wanting to get his hands on cash should take his coupon in 
additional bonds and then immediately sell them.  By doing that, 
he would realize more cash than if he had taken his coupon 
directly in cash.  Assuming all bonds were held by rational 
investors, no one would opt for cash in an era of 5% interest 
rates, not even those bondholders needing cash for living 
purposes.

     If, however, interest rates were 15%, no rational investor 
would want his money invested for him at 10%.  Instead, the 
investor would choose to take his coupon in cash, even if his 
personal cash needs were nil.  The opposite course - reinvestment 
of the coupon - would give an investor additional bonds with 
market value far less than the cash he could have elected.  If he 
should want 10% bonds, he can simply take the cash received 
and buy them in the market, where they will be available at a 
large discount.

     An analysis similar to that made by our hypothetical 
bondholder is appropriate for owners in thinking about whether a 
company’s unrestricted earnings should be retained or paid out.  
Of course, the analysis is much more difficult and subject to 
error because the rate earned on reinvested earnings is not a 
contractual figure, as in our bond case, but rather a fluctuating 
figure.  Owners must guess as to what the rate will average over 
the intermediate future.  However, once an informed guess is 
made, the rest of the analysis is simple: you should wish your 
earnings to be reinvested if they can be expected to earn high 
returns, and you should wish them paid to you if low returns are 
the likely outcome of reinvestment.

     Many corporate managers reason very much along these lines 
in determining whether subsidiaries should distribute earnings to 
their parent company.  At that level,. the managers have no 
trouble thinking like intelligent owners.  But payout decisions 
at the parent company level often are a different story.  Here 
managers frequently have trouble putting themselves in the shoes 
of their shareholder-owners.

     With this schizoid approach, the CEO of a multi-divisional 
company will instruct Subsidiary A, whose earnings on incremental 
capital may be expected to average 5%, to distribute all 
available earnings in order that they may be invested in 
Subsidiary B, whose earnings on incremental capital are expected 
to be 15%.  The CEO’s business school oath will allow no lesser 
behavior.  But if his own long-term record with incremental 
capital is 5% - and market rates are 10% - he is likely to impose 
a dividend policy on shareholders of the parent company that 
merely follows some historical or industry-wide payout pattern.  
Furthermore, he will expect managers of subsidiaries to give him 
a full account as to why it makes sense for earnings to be 
retained in their operations rather than distributed to the 
parent-owner.  But seldom will he supply his owners with a 
similar analysis pertaining to the whole company.

     In judging whether managers should retain earnings, 
shareholders should not simply compare total incremental earnings 
in recent years to total incremental capital because that 
relationship may be distorted by what is going on in a core 
business.  During an inflationary period, companies with a core 
business characterized by extraordinary economics can use small 
amounts of incremental capital in that business at very high 
rates of return (as was discussed in last year’s section on 
Goodwill).  But, unless they are experiencing tremendous unit 
growth, outstanding businesses by definition generate large 
amounts of excess cash.  If a company sinks most of this money in 
other businesses that earn low returns, the company’s overall 
return on retained capital may nevertheless appear excellent 
because of the extraordinary returns being earned by the portion 
of earnings incrementally invested in the core business.  The 
situation is analogous to a Pro-Am golf event: even if all of the 
amateurs are hopeless duffers, the team’s best-ball score will be 
respectable because of the dominating skills of the professional.

     Many corporations that consistently show good returns both 
on equity and on overall incremental capital have, indeed, 
employed a large portion of their retained earnings on an 
economically unattractive, even disastrous, basis.  Their 
marvelous core businesses, however, whose earnings grow year 
after year, camouflage repeated failures in capital allocation 
elsewhere (usually involving high-priced acquisitions of 
businesses that have inherently mediocre economics).  The 
managers at fault periodically report on the lessons they have 
learned from the latest disappointment.  They then usually seek 
out future lessons. (Failure seems to go to their heads.)

     In such cases, shareholders would be far better off if 
earnings were retained only to expand the high-return business, 
with the balance paid in dividends or used to repurchase stock 
(an action that increases the owners’ interest in the exceptional 
business while sparing them participation in subpar businesses).  
Managers of high-return businesses who consistently employ much 
of the cash thrown off by those businesses in other ventures with 
low returns should be held to account for those allocation 
decisions, regardless of how profitable the overall enterprise 
is.

     Nothing in this discussion is intended to argue for 
dividends that bounce around from quarter to quarter with each 
wiggle in earnings or in investment opportunities.  Shareholders 
of public corporations understandably prefer that dividends be 
consistent and predictable.  Payments, therefore, should reflect 
long-term expectations for both earnings and returns on 
incremental capital.  Since the long-term corporate outlook 
changes only infrequently, dividend patterns should change no 
more often.  But over time distributable earnings that have been 
withheld by managers should earn their keep.  If earnings have 
been unwisely retained, it is likely that managers, too, have 
been unwisely retained.

     Let’s now turn to Berkshire Hathaway and examine how these 
dividend principles apply to it.  Historically, Berkshire has 
earned well over market rates on retained earnings, thereby 
creating over one dollar of market value for every dollar 
retained.  Under such circumstances, any distribution would have 
been contrary to the financial interest of shareholders, large or 
small.

     In fact, significant distributions in the early years might 
have been disastrous, as a review of our starting position will 
show you.  Charlie and I then controlled and managed three 
companies, Berkshire Hathaway Inc., Diversified Retailing 
Company, Inc., and Blue Chip Stamps (all now merged into our 
present operation).  Blue Chip paid only a small dividend, 
Berkshire and DRC paid nothing.  If, instead, the companies had 
paid out their entire earnings, we almost certainly would have no 
earnings at all now - and perhaps no capital as well.  The three 
companies each originally made their money from a single 
business: (1) textiles at Berkshire; (2) department stores at 
Diversified; and (3) trading stamps at Blue Chip.  These 
cornerstone businesses (carefully chosen, it should be noted, by 
your Chairman and Vice Chairman) have, respectively, (1) survived 
but earned almost nothing, (2) shriveled in size while incurring 
large losses, and (3) shrunk in sales volume to about 5% its size 
at the time of our entry.  (Who says “you can’t lose ‘em all”?) 
Only by committing available funds to much better businesses were 
we able to overcome these origins. (It’s been like overcoming a 
misspent youth.) Clearly, diversification has served us well.

     We expect to continue to diversify while also supporting the 
growth of current operations though, as we’ve pointed out, our 
returns from these efforts will surely be below our historical 
returns.  But as long as prospective returns are above the rate 
required to produce a dollar of market value per dollar retained, 
we will continue to retain all earnings.  Should our estimate of 
future returns fall below that point, we will distribute all 
unrestricted earnings that we believe can not be effectively 
used.  In making that judgment, we will look at both our 
historical record and our prospects.  Because our year-to-year 
results are inherently volatile, we believe a five-year rolling 
average to be appropriate for judging the historical record.

     Our present plan is to use our retained earnings to further 
build the capital of our insurance companies.  Most of our 
competitors are in weakened financial condition and reluctant to 
expand substantially.  Yet large premium-volume gains for the 
industry are imminent, amounting probably to well over $15 
billion in 1985 versus less than $5 billion in 1983.  These 
circumstances could produce major amounts of profitable business 
for us.  Of course, this result is no sure thing, but prospects 
for it are far better than they have been for many years.

Miscellaneous

     This is the spot where each year I run my small “business 
wanted” ad.  In 1984 John Loomis, one of our particularly 
knowledgeable and alert shareholders, came up with a company that 
met all of our tests.  We immediately pursued this idea, and only 
a chance complication prevented a deal.  Since our ad is pulling, 
we will repeat it in precisely last year’s form:

     We prefer:
     (1) large purchases (at least $5 million of after-tax 
         earnings),
     (2) demonstrated consistent earning power (future 
         projections are of little interest to us, nor are 
         “turn-around” situations),
     (3) businesses earning good returns on equity while 
         employing little or no debt,
     (4) management in place (we can’t supply it),
     (5) simple businesses (if there’s lots of technology, we 
         won’t understand it),
     (6) an offering price (we don’t want to waste our time or 
         that of the seller by talking, even preliminarily, 
         about a transaction when price is unknown).

     We will not engage in unfriendly takeovers.  We can promise 
complete confidentiality and a very fast answer - customarily 
within five minutes - as to whether we’re interested.  We prefer 
to buy for cash, but will consider issuance of stock when we 
receive as much in intrinsic business value as we give.  We 
invite potential sellers to check us out by contacting people 
with whom we have done business in the past.  For the right 
business - and the right people - we can provide a good home.

                           *  *  *

     A record 97.2% of all eligible shares participated in 
Berkshire’s 1984 shareholder-designated contributions program.  
Total contributions made through this program were $3,179,000, 
and 1,519 charities were recipients.  Our proxy material for the 
annual meeting will allow you to cast an advisory vote expressing 
your views about this program - whether you think we should 
continue it and, if so, at what per-share level. (You may be 
interested to learn that we were unable to find a precedent for 
an advisory vote in which management seeks the opinions of 
shareholders about owner-related corporate policies.  Managers 
who put their trust in capitalism seem in no hurry to put their 
trust in capitalists.)

     We urge new shareholders to read the description of our 
shareholder-designated contributions program that appears on 
pages 60 and 61.  If you wish to participate in future programs, 
we strongly urge that you immediately make sure that your shares 
are registered in the name of the actual owner, not in “street” 
name or nominee name.  Shares not so registered on September 30, 
1985 will be ineligible for the 1985 program.

                           *  *  *

     Our annual meeting will be on May 21, 1985 in Omaha, and I 
hope that you attend.  Many annual meetings are a waste of time, 
both for shareholders and for management.  Sometimes that is true 
because management is reluctant to open up on matters of business 
substance.  More often a nonproductive session is the fault of 
shareholder participants who are more concerned about their own 
moment on stage than they are about the affairs of the 
corporation.  What should be a forum for business discussion 
becomes a forum for theatrics, spleen-venting and advocacy of 
issues. (The deal is irresistible: for the price of one share you 
get to tell a captive audience your ideas as to how the world 
should be run.) Under such circumstances, the quality of the 
meeting often deteriorates from year to year as the antics of 
those interested in themselves discourage attendance by those 
interested in the business.

     Berkshire’s meetings are a different story.  The number of 
shareholders attending grows a bit each year and we have yet to 
experience a silly question or an ego-inspired commentary.  
Instead, we get a wide variety of thoughtful questions about the 
business.  Because the annual meeting is the time and place for 
these, Charlie and I are happy to answer them all, no matter how 
long it takes. (We cannot, however, respond to written or phoned 
questions at other times of the year; one-person-at-a time 
reporting is a poor use of management time in a company with 3000 
shareholders.) The only business matters that are off limits at 
the annual meeting are those about which candor might cost our 
company real money.  Our activities in securities would be the 
main example.

     We always have bragged a bit on these pages about the 
quality of our shareholder-partners.  Come to the annual meeting 
and you will see why.  Out-of-towners should schedule a stop at 
Nebraska Furniture Mart.  If you make some purchases, you’ll save 
far more than enough to pay for your trip, and you’ll enjoy the 
experience.

                                           Warren E. Buffett
February 25, 1985                          Chairman of the Board

     Subsequent Event: On March 18, a week after copy for this 
report went to the typographer but shortly before production, we 
agreed to purchase three million shares of Capital Cities 
Communications, Inc. at $172.50 per share.  Our purchase is 
contingent upon the acquisition of American Broadcasting 
Companies, Inc. by Capital Cities, and will close when that 
transaction closes.  At the earliest, that will be very late in 
1985.  Our admiration for the management of Capital Cities, led 
by Tom Murphy and Dan Burke, has been expressed several times in 
previous annual reports.  Quite simply, they are tops in both 
ability and integrity.  We will have more to say about this 
investment in next year’s report.








Chairman's Letter - 1985



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.



To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:

     You may remember the wildly upbeat message of last year’s 
report: nothing much was in the works but our experience had been 
that something big popped up occasionally.  This carefully-
crafted corporate strategy paid off in 1985.  Later sections of 
this report discuss (a) our purchase of a major position in 
Capital Cities/ABC, (b) our acquisition of Scott & Fetzer, (c) 
our entry into a large, extended term participation in the 
insurance business of Fireman’s Fund, and (d) our sale of our 
stock in General Foods.

     Our gain in net worth during the year was $613.6 million, or 
48.2%. It is fitting that the visit of Halley’s Comet coincided 
with this percentage gain: neither will be seen again in my 
lifetime.  Our gain in per-share book value over the last twenty-
one years (that is, since present management took over) has been 
from $19.46 to $1643.71, or 23.2% compounded annually, another 
percentage that will not be repeated.

    Two factors make anything approaching this rate of gain 
unachievable in the future.  One factor probably transitory - is 
a stock market that offers very little opportunity compared to 
the markets that prevailed throughout much of the 1964-1984 
period.  Today we cannot find significantly-undervalued equities 
to purchase for our insurance company portfolios.  The current 
situation is 180 degrees removed from that existing about a 
decade ago, when the only question was which bargain to choose.

     This change in the market also has negative implications for 
our present portfolio.  In our 1974 annual report I could say:  
“We consider several of our major holdings to have great 
potential for significantly increased values in future years.” I 
can’t say that now.  It’s true that our insurance companies 
currently hold major positions in companies with exceptional 
underlying economics and outstanding managements, just as they 
did in 1974.  But current market prices generously appraise these 
attributes, whereas they were ignored in 1974.  Today’s 
valuations mean that our insurance companies have no chance for 
future portfolio gains on the scale of those achieved in the 
past.

     The second negative factor, far more telling, is our size.  
Our equity capital is more than twenty times what it was only ten 
years ago.  And an iron law of business is that growth eventually 
dampens exceptional economics. just look at the records of high-
return companies once they have amassed even $1 billion of equity 
capital.  None that I know of has managed subsequently, over a 
ten-year period, to keep on earning 20% or more on equity while 
reinvesting all or substantially all of its earnings.  Instead, 
to sustain their high returns, such companies have needed to shed 
a lot of capital by way of either dividends or repurchases of 
stock.  Their shareholders would have been far better off if all 
earnings could have been reinvested at the fat returns earned by 
these exceptional businesses.  But the companies simply couldn’t 
turn up enough high-return opportunities to make that possible.

     Their problem is our problem.  Last year I told you that we 
needed profits of $3.9 billion over the ten years then coming up 
to earn 15% annually.  The comparable figure for the ten years 
now ahead is $5.7 billion, a 48% increase that corresponds - as 
it must mathematically - to the growth in our capital base during 
1985. (Here’s a little perspective: leaving aside oil companies, 
only about 15 U.S. businesses have managed to earn over $5.7 
billion during the past ten years.)

     Charlie Munger, my partner in managing Berkshire, and I are 
reasonably optimistic about Berkshire’s ability to earn returns 
superior to those earned by corporate America generally, and you 
will benefit from the company’s retention of all earnings as long 
as those returns are forthcoming.  We have several things going 
for us: (1) we don’t have to worry about quarterly or annual 
figures but, instead, can focus on whatever actions will maximize 
long-term value; (2) we can expand the business into any areas 
that make sense - our scope is not circumscribed by history, 
structure, or concept; and (3) we love our work.  All of these 
help.  Even so, we will also need a full measure of good fortune 
to average our hoped-for 15% - far more good fortune than was 
required for our past 23.2%.

     We need to mention one further item in the investment 
equation that could affect recent purchasers of our stock.  
Historically, Berkshire shares have sold modestly below intrinsic 
business value.  With the price there, purchasers could be 
certain (as long as they did not experience a widening of this 
discount) that their personal investment experience would at 
least equal the financial experience of the business.  But 
recently the discount has disappeared, and occasionally a modest 
premium has prevailed.

     The elimination of the discount means that Berkshire’s 
market value increased even faster than business value (which, 
itself, grew at a pleasing pace).  That was good news for any 
owner holding while that move took place, but it is bad news for 
the new or prospective owner.  If the financial experience of new 
owners of Berkshire is merely to match the future financial 
experience of the company, any premium of market value over 
intrinsic business value that they pay must be maintained.

     Management cannot determine market prices, although it can, 
by its disclosures and policies, encourage rational behavior by 
market participants.  My own preference, as perhaps you’d guess, 
is for a market price that consistently approximates business 
value.  Given that relationship, all owners prosper precisely as 
the business prospers during their period of ownership.  Wild 
swings in market prices far above and below business value do not 
change the final gains for owners in aggregate; in the end, 
investor gains must equal business gains.  But long periods of 
substantial undervaluation and/or overvaluation will cause the 
gains of the business to be inequitably distributed among various 
owners, with the investment result of any given owner largely 
depending upon how lucky, shrewd, or foolish he happens to be.

     Over the long term there has been a more consistent 
relationship between Berkshire’s market value and business value 
than has existed for any other publicly-traded equity with which 
I am familiar.  This is a tribute to you.  Because you have been 
rational, interested, and investment-oriented, the market price 
for Berkshire stock has almost always been sensible.  This 
unusual result has been achieved by a shareholder group with 
unusual demographics: virtually all of our shareholders are 
individuals, not institutions.  No other public company our size 
can claim the same.

     You might think that institutions, with their large staffs 
of highly-paid and experienced investment professionals, would be 
a force for stability and reason in financial markets.  They are 
not: stocks heavily owned and constantly monitored by 
institutions have often been among the most inappropriately 
valued.

     Ben Graham told a story 40 years ago that illustrates why 
investment professionals behave as they do: An oil prospector, 
moving to his heavenly reward, was met by St. Peter with bad 
news.  “You’re qualified for residence”, said St. Peter, “but, as 
you can see, the compound reserved for oil men is packed.  
There’s no way to squeeze you in.” After thinking a moment, the 
prospector asked if he might say just four words to the present 
occupants.  That seemed harmless to St. Peter, so the prospector 
cupped his hands and yelled, “Oil discovered in hell.” 
Immediately the gate to the compound opened and all of the oil 
men marched out to head for the nether regions.  Impressed, St. 
Peter invited the prospector to move in and make himself 
comfortable.  The prospector paused.  “No,” he said, “I think 
I’ll go along with the rest of the boys.  There might be some 
truth to that rumor after all.”

Sources of Reported Earnings

     The table on the next page shows the major sources of 
Berkshire’s reported earnings.  These numbers, along with far 
more detailed sub-segment numbers, are the ones that Charlie and 
I focus upon.  We do not find consolidated figures an aid in 
either managing or evaluating Berkshire and, in fact, never 
prepare them for internal use.

     Segment information is equally essential for investors 
wanting to know what is going on in a multi-line business.  
Corporate managers always have insisted upon such information 
before making acquisition decisions but, until a few years ago, 
seldom made it available to investors faced with acquisition and 
disposition decisions of their own.  Instead, when owners wishing 
to understand the economic realities of their business asked for 
data, managers usually gave them a we-can’t-tell-you-what-is-
going-on-because-it-would-hurt-the-company answer.  Ultimately 
the SEC ordered disclosure of segment data and management began 
supplying real answers.  The change in their behavior recalls an 
insight of Al Capone: “You can get much further with a kind word 
and a gun than you can with a kind word alone.”

In the table, amortization of Goodwill is not charged against the 
specific businesses but, for reasons outlined in the Appendix to 
my letter in the 1983 annual report, is aggregated as a separate 
item. (A compendium of the 1977-1984 letters is available upon 
request.) In the Business Segment Data and Management’s 
Discussion sections on pages 39-41 and 49-55, much additional 
information regarding our businesses is provided, including 
Goodwill and Goodwill Amortization figures for each of the 
segments.  I urge you to read those sections as well as Charlie 
Munger’s letter to Wesco shareholders, which starts on page 56.

                                                (000s omitted) 
                                  -----------------------------------------
                                                         Berkshire's Share 
                                                          of Net Earnings 
                                                         (after taxes and 
                                    Pre-Tax Earnings    minority interests)
                                  -------------------   -------------------
                                    1985       1984       1985       1984 
                                  --------   --------   --------   --------
Operating Earnings:
  Insurance Group:
    Underwriting ................ $(44,230)  $(48,060)  $(23,569)  $(25,955)
    Net Investment Income .......   95,217     68,903     79,716     62,059
  Associated Retail Stores ......      270     (1,072)       134       (579)
  Blue Chip Stamps ..............    5,763     (1,843)     2,813       (899)
  Buffalo News ..................   29,921     27,328     14,580     13,317
  Mutual Savings and Loan .......    2,622      1,456      4,016      3,151
  Nebraska Furniture Mart .......   12,686     14,511      5,181      5,917
  Precision Steel ...............    3,896      4,092      1,477      1,696
  See’s Candies .................   28,989     26,644     14,558     13,380
  Textiles ......................   (2,395)       418     (1,324)       226
  Wesco Financial ...............    9,500      9,777      4,191      4,828
  Amortization of Goodwill ......   (1,475)    (1,434)    (1,475)    (1,434)
  Interest on Debt ..............  (14,415)   (14,734)    (7,288)    (7,452)
  Shareholder-Designated 
     Contributions ..............   (4,006)    (3,179)    (2,164)    (1,716)
  Other .........................    3,106      4,932      2,102      3,475
                                  --------   --------   --------   --------
Operating Earnings ..............  125,449     87,739     92,948     70,014
Special General Foods Distribution   4,127      8,111      3,779      7,294
Special Washington Post 
   Distribution .................   14,877      ---       13,851      ---
Sales of Securities .............  468,903    104,699    325,237     71,587
                                  --------   --------   --------   --------
Total Earnings - all entities ... $613,356   $200,549   $435,815   $148,895
                                  ========   ========   ========   ======== 

     Our 1985 results include unusually large earnings from the 
sale of securities.  This fact, in itself, does not mean that we 
had a particularly good year (though, of course, we did).  
Security profits in a given year bear similarities to a college 
graduation ceremony in which the knowledge gained over four years 
is recognized on a day when nothing further is learned.  We may 
hold a stock for a decade or more, and during that period it may 
grow quite consistently in both business and market value.  In 
the year in which we finally sell it there may be no increase in 
value, or there may even be a decrease.  But all growth in value 
since purchase will be reflected in the accounting earnings of 
the year of sale. (If the stock owned is in our insurance 
subsidiaries, however, any gain or loss in market value will be 
reflected in net worth annually.) Thus, reported capital gains or 
losses in any given year are meaningless as a measure of how well 
we have done in the current year.

     A large portion of the realized gain in 1985 ($338 million 
pre-tax out of a total of $488 million) came about through the 
sale of our General Foods shares.  We held most of these shares 
since 1980, when we had purchased them at a price far below what 
we felt was their per/share business value.  Year by year, the 
managerial efforts of Jim Ferguson and Phil Smith substantially 
increased General Foods’ business value and, last fall, Philip 
Morris made an offer for the company that reflected the increase.  
We thus benefited from four factors: a bargain purchase price, a 
business with fine underlying economics, an able management 
concentrating on the interests of shareholders, and a buyer 
willing to pay full business value.  While that last factor is 
the only one that produces reported earnings, we consider 
identification of the first three to be the key to building value 
for Berkshire shareholders.  In selecting common stocks, we 
devote our attention to attractive purchases, not to the 
possibility of attractive sales.

     We have again reported substantial income from special 
distributions, this year from Washington Post and General Foods. 
(The General Foods transactions obviously took place well before 
the Philip Morris offer.) Distributions of this kind occur when 
we sell a portion of our shares in a company back to it 
simultaneously with its purchase of shares from other 
shareholders.  The number of shares we sell is contractually set 
so as to leave our percentage ownership in the company precisely 
the same after the sale as before.  Such a transaction is quite 
properly regarded by the IRS as substantially equivalent to a 
dividend since we, as a shareholder, receive cash while 
maintaining an unchanged ownership interest.  This tax treatment 
benefits us because corporate taxpayers, unlike individual 
taxpayers, incur much lower taxes on dividend income than on 
income from long-term capital gains. (This difference will be 
widened further if the House-passed tax bill becomes law: under 
its provisions, capital gains realized by corporations will be 
taxed at the same rate as ordinary income.) However, accounting 
rules are unclear as to proper treatment for shareholder 
reporting.  To conform with last year’s treatment, we have shown 
these transactions as capital gains.

     Though we have not sought out such transactions, we have 
agreed to them on several occasions when managements initiated 
the idea.  In each case we have felt that non-selling 
shareholders (all of whom had an opportunity to sell at the same 
price we received) benefited because the companies made their 
repurchases at prices below intrinsic business value.  The tax 
advantages we receive and our wish to cooperate with managements 
that are increasing values for all shareholders have sometimes 
led us to sell - but only to the extent that our proportional 
share of the business was undiminished.

     At this point we usually turn to a discussion of some of our 
major business units.  Before doing so, however, we should first 
look at a failure at one of our smaller businesses.  Our Vice 
Chairman, Charlie Munger, has always emphasized the study of 
mistakes rather than successes, both in business and other 
aspects of life.  He does so in the spirit of the man who said: 
“All I want to know is where I’m going to die so I’ll never go 
there.” You’ll immediately see why we make a good team: Charlie 
likes to study errors and I have generated ample material for 
him, particularly in our textile and insurance businesses.

Shutdown of Textile Business

     In July we decided to close our textile operation, and by 
yearend this unpleasant job was largely completed.  The history 
of this business is instructive.

     When Buffett Partnership, Ltd., an investment partnership of 
which I was general partner, bought control of Berkshire Hathaway 
21 years ago, it had an accounting net worth of $22 million, all 
devoted to the textile business.  The company’s intrinsic 
business value, however, was considerably less because the 
textile assets were unable to earn returns commensurate with 
their accounting value.  Indeed, during the previous nine years 
(the period in which Berkshire and Hathaway operated as a merged 
company) aggregate sales of $530 million had produced an 
aggregate loss of $10 million.  Profits had been reported from 
time to time but the net effect was always one step forward, two 
steps back.

     At the time we made our purchase, southern textile plants - 
largely non-union - were believed to have an important 
competitive advantage.  Most northern textile operations had 
closed and many people thought we would liquidate our business as 
well.

     We felt, however, that the business would be run much better 
by a long-time employee whom. we immediately selected to be 
president, Ken Chace.  In this respect we were 100% correct: Ken 
and his recent successor, Garry Morrison, have been excellent 
managers, every bit the equal of managers at our more profitable 
businesses.

     In early 1967 cash generated by the textile operation was 
used to fund our entry into insurance via the purchase of 
National Indemnity Company.  Some of the money came from earnings 
and some from reduced investment in textile inventories, 
receivables, and fixed assets.  This pullback proved wise: 
although much improved by Ken’s management, the textile business 
never became a good earner, not even in cyclical upturns.

     Further diversification for Berkshire followed, and 
gradually the textile operation’s depressing effect on our 
overall return diminished as the business became a progressively 
smaller portion of the corporation.  We remained in the business 
for reasons that I stated in the 1978 annual report (and 
summarized at other times also): “(1) our textile businesses are 
very important employers in their communities, (2) management has 
been straightforward in reporting on problems and energetic in 
attacking them, (3) labor has been cooperative and understanding 
in facing our common problems, and (4) the business should 
average modest cash returns relative to investment.” I further 
said, “As long as these conditions prevail - and we expect that 
they will - we intend to continue to support our textile business 
despite more attractive alternative uses for capital.”

     It turned out that I was very wrong about (4).  Though 1979 
was moderately profitable, the business thereafter consumed major 
amounts of cash. By mid-1985 it became clear, even to me, that 
this condition was almost sure to continue.  Could we have found 
a buyer who would continue operations, I would have certainly 
preferred to sell the business rather than liquidate it, even if 
that meant somewhat lower proceeds for us.  But the economics 
that were finally obvious to me were also obvious to others, and 
interest was nil.

     I won’t close down businesses of sub-normal profitability 
merely to add a fraction of a point to our corporate rate of 
return.  However, I also feel it inappropriate for even an 
exceptionally profitable company to fund an operation once it 
appears to have unending losses in prospect.  Adam Smith would 
disagree with my first proposition, and Karl Marx would disagree 
with my second; the middle ground is the only position that 
leaves me comfortable.

     I should reemphasize that Ken and Garry have been 
resourceful, energetic and imaginative in attempting to make our 
textile operation a success.  Trying to achieve sustainable 
profitability, they reworked product lines, machinery 
configurations and distribution arrangements.  We also made a 
major acquisition, Waumbec Mills, with the expectation of 
important synergy (a term widely used in business to explain an 
acquisition that otherwise makes no sense).  But in the end 
nothing worked and I should be faulted for not quitting sooner.  
A recent Business Week article stated that 250 textile mills have 
closed since 1980.  Their owners were not privy to any 
information that was unknown to me; they simply processed it more 
objectively.  I ignored Comte’s advice - “the intellect should be 
the servant of the heart, but not its slave” - and believed what 
I preferred to believe.

     The domestic textile industry operates in a commodity 
business, competing in a world market in which substantial excess 
capacity exists.  Much of the trouble we experienced was 
attributable, both directly and indirectly, to competition from 
foreign countries whose workers are paid a small fraction of the 
U.S. minimum wage.  But that in no way means that our labor force 
deserves any blame for our closing.  In fact, in comparison with 
employees of American industry generally, our workers were poorly 
paid, as has been the case throughout the textile business.  In 
contract negotiations, union leaders and members were sensitive 
to our disadvantageous cost position and did not push for 
unrealistic wage increases or unproductive work practices.  To 
the contrary, they tried just as hard as we did to keep us 
competitive.  Even during our liquidation period they performed 
superbly. (Ironically, we would have been better off financially 
if our union had behaved unreasonably some years ago; we then 
would have recognized the impossible future that we faced, 
promptly closed down, and avoided significant future losses.)

     Over the years, we had the option of making large capital 
expenditures in the textile operation that would have allowed us 
to somewhat reduce variable costs.  Each proposal to do so looked 
like an immediate winner.  Measured by standard return-on-
investment tests, in fact, these proposals usually promised 
greater economic benefits than would have resulted from 
comparable expenditures in our highly-profitable candy and 
newspaper businesses.

     But the promised benefits from these textile investments 
were illusory.  Many of our competitors, both domestic and 
foreign, were stepping up to the same kind of expenditures and, 
once enough companies did so, their reduced costs became the 
baseline for reduced prices industrywide.  Viewed individually, 
each company’s capital investment decision appeared cost-
effective and rational; viewed collectively, the decisions 
neutralized each other and were irrational (just as happens when 
each person watching a parade decides he can see a little better 
if he stands on tiptoes).  After each round of investment, all 
the players had more money in the game and returns remained 
anemic.

     Thus, we faced a miserable choice: huge capital investment 
would have helped to keep our textile business alive, but would 
have left us with terrible returns on ever-growing amounts of 
capital.  After the investment, moreover, the foreign competition 
would still have retained a major, continuing advantage in labor 
costs.  A refusal to invest, however, would make us increasingly 
non-competitive, even measured against domestic textile 
manufacturers.  I always thought myself in the position described 
by Woody Allen in one of his movies: “More than any other time in 
history, mankind faces a crossroads.  One path leads to despair 
and utter hopelessness, the other to total extinction.  Let us 
pray we have the wisdom to choose correctly.”

     For an understanding of how the to-invest-or-not-to-invest 
dilemma plays out in a commodity business, it is instructive to 
look at Burlington Industries, by far the largest U.S. textile 
company both 21 years ago and now.  In 1964 Burlington had sales 
of $1.2 billion against our $50 million.  It had strengths in 
both distribution and production that we could never hope to 
match and also, of course, had an earnings record far superior to 
ours.  Its stock sold at 60 at the end of 1964; ours was 13.

     Burlington made a decision to stick to the textile business, 
and in 1985 had sales of about $2.8 billion.  During the 1964-85 
period, the company made capital expenditures of about $3 
billion, far more than any other U.S. textile company and more 
than $200-per-share on that $60 stock.  A very large part of the 
expenditures, I am sure, was devoted to cost improvement and 
expansion.  Given Burlington’s basic commitment to stay in 
textiles, I would also surmise that the company’s capital 
decisions were quite rational.

     Nevertheless, Burlington has lost sales volume in real 
dollars and has far lower returns on sales and equity now than 20 
years ago.  Split 2-for-1 in 1965, the stock now sells at 34 -- 
on an adjusted basis, just a little over its $60 price in 1964.  
Meanwhile, the CPI has more than tripled.  Therefore, each share 
commands about one-third the purchasing power it did at the end 
of 1964.  Regular dividends have been paid but they, too, have 
shrunk significantly in purchasing power.

     This devastating outcome for the shareholders indicates what 
can happen when much brain power and energy are applied to a 
faulty premise.  The situation is suggestive of Samuel Johnson’s 
horse: “A horse that can count to ten is a remarkable horse - not 
a remarkable mathematician.” Likewise, a textile company that 
allocates capital brilliantly within its industry is a remarkable 
textile company - but not a remarkable business.

     My conclusion from my own experiences and from much 
observation of other businesses is that a good managerial record 
(measured by economic returns) is far more a function of what 
business boat you get into than it is of how effectively you row 
(though intelligence and effort help considerably, of course, in 
any business, good or bad).  Some years ago I wrote: “When a 
management with a reputation for brilliance tackles a business 
with a reputation for poor fundamental economics, it is the 
reputation of the business that remains intact.” Nothing has 
since changed my point of view on that matter.  Should you find 
yourself in a chronically-leaking boat, energy devoted to 
changing vessels is likely to be more productive than energy 
devoted to patching leaks.

                            *  *  *

     There is an investment postscript in our textile saga.  Some 
investors weight book value heavily in their stock-buying 
decisions (as I, in my early years, did myself).  And some 
economists and academicians believe replacement values are of 
considerable importance in calculating an appropriate price level 
for the stock market as a whole.  Those of both persuasions would 
have received an education at the auction we held in early 1986 
to dispose of our textile machinery.

     The equipment sold (including some disposed of in the few 
months prior to the auction) took up about 750,000 square feet of 
factory space in New Bedford and was eminently usable.  It 
originally cost us about $13 million, including $2 million spent 
in 1980-84, and had a current book value of $866,000 (after 
accelerated depreciation).  Though no sane management would have 
made the investment, the equipment could have been replaced new 
for perhaps $30-$50 million.

     Gross proceeds from our sale of this equipment came to 
$163,122.  Allowing for necessary pre- and post-sale costs, our 
net was less than zero.  Relatively modern looms that we bought 
for $5,000 apiece in 1981 found no takers at $50.  We finally 
sold them for scrap at $26 each, a sum less than removal costs.

     Ponder this: the economic goodwill attributable to two paper 
routes in Buffalo - or a single See’s candy store - considerably 
exceeds the proceeds we received from this massive collection of 
tangible assets that not too many years ago, under different 
competitive conditions, was able to employ over 1,000 people.

Three Very Good Businesses (and a Few Thoughts About Incentive 
Compensation)

     When I was 12, I lived with my grandfather for about four 
months.  A grocer by trade, he was also working on a book and 
each night he dictated a few pages to me.  The title - brace 
yourself - was “How to Run a Grocery Store and a Few Things I 
Have Learned About Fishing”.  My grandfather was sure that 
interest in these two subjects was universal and that the world 
awaited his views.  You may conclude from this section’s title 
and contents that I was overexposed to Grandpa’s literary style 
(and personality).

     I am merging the discussion of Nebraska Furniture Mart, 
See’s Candy Shops, and Buffalo Evening News here because the 
economic strengths, weaknesses, and prospects of these businesses 
have changed little since I reported to you a year ago.  The 
shortness of this discussion, however, is in no way meant to 
minimize the importance of these businesses to us: in 1985 they 
earned an aggregate of $72 million pre-tax.  Fifteen years ago, 
before we had acquired any of them, their aggregate earnings were 
about $8 million pre-tax.

     While an increase in earnings from $8 million to $72 million 
sounds terrific - and usually is - you should not automatically 
assume that to be the case.  You must first make sure that 
earnings were not severely depressed in the base year.  If they 
were instead substantial in relation to capital employed, an even 
more important point must be examined: how much additional 
capital was required to produce the additional earnings?

     In both respects, our group of three scores well.  First, 
earnings 15 years ago were excellent compared to capital then 
employed in the businesses.  Second, although annual earnings are 
now $64 million greater, the businesses require only about $40 
million more in invested capital to operate than was the case 
then.

     The dramatic growth in earning power of these three 
businesses, accompanied by their need for only minor amounts of 
capital, illustrates very well the power of economic goodwill 
during an inflationary period (a phenomenon explained in detail 
in the 1983 annual report).  The financial characteristics of 
these businesses have allowed us to use a very large portion of 
the earnings they generate elsewhere.  Corporate America, 
however, has had a different experience: in order to increase 
earnings significantly, most companies have needed to increase 
capital significantly also.  The average American business has 
required about $5 of additional capital to generate an additional 
$1 of annual pre-tax earnings.  That business, therefore, would 
have required over $300 million in additional capital from its 
owners in order to achieve an earnings performance equal to our 
group of three.

     When returns on capital are ordinary, an earn-more-by-
putting-up-more record is no great managerial achievement.  You 
can get the same result personally while operating from your 
rocking chair. just quadruple the capital you commit to a savings 
account and you will quadruple your earnings.  You would hardly 
expect hosannas for that particular accomplishment.  Yet, 
retirement announcements regularly sing the praises of CEOs who 
have, say, quadrupled earnings of their widget company during 
their reign - with no one examining whether this gain was 
attributable simply to many years of retained earnings and the 
workings of compound interest.

     If the widget company consistently earned a superior return 
on capital throughout the period, or if capital employed only 
doubled during the CEO’s reign, the praise for him may be well 
deserved.  But if return on capital was lackluster and capital 
employed increased in pace with earnings, applause should be 
withheld.  A savings account in which interest was reinvested 
would achieve the same year-by-year increase in earnings - and, 
at only 8% interest, would quadruple its annual earnings in 18 
years.

     The power of this simple math is often ignored by companies 
to the detriment of their shareholders.  Many corporate 
compensation plans reward managers handsomely for earnings 
increases produced solely, or in large part, by retained earnings 
- i.e., earnings withheld from owners.  For example, ten-year, 
fixed-price stock options are granted routinely, often by 
companies whose dividends are only a small percentage of 
earnings.

     An example will illustrate the inequities possible under 
such circumstances.  Let’s suppose that you had a $100,000 
savings account earning 8% interest and “managed” by a trustee 
who could decide each year what portion of the interest you were 
to be paid in cash.  Interest not paid out would be “retained 
earnings” added to the savings account to compound.  And let’s 
suppose that your trustee, in his superior wisdom, set the “pay-
out ratio” at one-quarter of the annual earnings.

     Under these assumptions, your account would be worth 
$179,084 at the end of ten years.  Additionally, your annual 
earnings would have increased about 70% from $8,000 to $13,515 
under this inspired management.  And, finally, your “dividends” 
would have increased commensurately, rising regularly from $2,000 
in the first year to $3,378 in the tenth year.  Each year, when 
your manager’s public relations firm prepared his annual report 
to you, all of the charts would have had lines marching skyward.

     Now, just for fun, let’s push our scenario one notch further 
and give your trustee-manager a ten-year fixed-price option on 
part of your “business” (i.e., your savings account) based on its 
fair value in the first year.  With such an option, your manager 
would reap a substantial profit at your expense - just from 
having held on to most of your earnings.  If he were both 
Machiavellian and a bit of a mathematician, your manager might 
also have cut the pay-out ratio once he was firmly entrenched.

     This scenario is not as farfetched as you might think.  Many 
stock options in the corporate world have worked in exactly that 
fashion: they have gained in value simply because management 
retained earnings, not because it did well with the capital in 
its hands.

     Managers actually apply a double standard to options.  
Leaving aside warrants (which deliver the issuing corporation 
immediate and substantial compensation), I believe it is fair to 
say that nowhere in the business world are ten-year fixed-price 
options on all or a portion of a business granted to outsiders.  
Ten months, in fact, would be regarded as extreme.  It would be 
particularly unthinkable for managers to grant a long-term option 
on a business that was regularly adding to its capital.  Any 
outsider wanting to secure such an option would be required to 
pay fully for capital added during the option period.

     The unwillingness of managers to do-unto-outsiders, however, 
is not matched by an unwillingness to do-unto-themselves. 
(Negotiating with one’s self seldom produces a barroom brawl.) 
Managers regularly engineer ten-year, fixed-price options for 
themselves and associates that, first, totally ignore the fact 
that retained earnings automatically build value and, second, 
ignore the carrying cost of capital.  As a result, these managers 
end up profiting much as they would have had they had an option 
on that savings account that was automatically building up in 
value.

     Of course, stock options often go to talented, value-adding 
managers and sometimes deliver them rewards that are perfectly 
appropriate. (Indeed, managers who are really exceptional almost 
always get far less than they should.) But when the result is 
equitable, it is accidental.  Once granted, the option is blind 
to individual performance.  Because it is irrevocable and 
unconditional (so long as a manager stays in the company), the 
sluggard receives rewards from his options precisely as does the 
star.  A managerial Rip Van Winkle, ready to doze for ten years, 
could not wish for a better “incentive” system.

     (I can’t resist commenting on one long-term option given an 
“outsider”: that granted the U.S. Government on Chrysler shares 
as partial consideration for the government’s guarantee of some 
lifesaving loans.  When these options worked out well for the 
government, Chrysler sought to modify the payoff, arguing that 
the rewards to the government were both far greater than intended 
and outsize in relation to its contribution to Chrysler’s 
recovery.  The company’s anguish over what it saw as an imbalance 
between payoff and performance made national news.  That anguish 
may well be unique: to my knowledge, no managers - anywhere - 
have been similarly offended by unwarranted payoffs arising from 
options granted to themselves or their colleagues.)

     Ironically, the rhetoric about options frequently describes 
them as desirable because they put managers and owners in the 
same financial boat.  In reality, the boats are far different.  
No owner has ever escaped the burden of capital costs, whereas a 
holder of a fixed-price option bears no capital costs at all.  An 
owner must weigh upside potential against downside risk; an 
option holder has no downside.  In fact, the business project in 
which you would wish to have an option frequently is a project in 
which you would reject ownership. (I’ll be happy to accept a 
lottery ticket as a gift - but I’ll never buy one.)

     In dividend policy also, the option holders’ interests are 
best served by a policy that may ill serve the owner.  Think back 
to the savings account example.  The trustee, holding his option, 
would benefit from a no-dividend policy.  Conversely, the owner 
of the account should lean to a total payout so that he can 
prevent the option-holding manager from sharing in the account’s 
retained earnings.

     Despite their shortcomings, options can be appropriate under 
some circumstances.  My criticism relates to their indiscriminate 
use and, in that connection, I would like to emphasize three 
points:

     First, stock options are inevitably tied to the overall 
performance of a corporation.  Logically, therefore, they should 
be awarded only to those managers with overall responsibility.  
Managers with limited areas of responsibility should have 
incentives that pay off in relation to results under their 
control.  The .350 hitter expects, and also deserves, a big 
payoff for his performance - even if he plays for a cellar-
dwelling team.  And the .150 hitter should get no reward - even 
if he plays for a pennant winner.  Only those with overall 
responsibility for the team should have their rewards tied to its 
results.

     Second, options should be structured carefully.  Absent 
special factors, they should have built into them a retained-
earnings or carrying-cost factor.  Equally important, they should 
be priced realistically.  When managers are faced with offers for 
their companies, they unfailingly point out how unrealistic 
market prices can be as an index of real value.  But why, then, 
should these same depressed prices be the valuations at which 
managers sell portions of their businesses to themselves? (They 
may go further: officers and directors sometimes consult the Tax 
Code to determine the lowest prices at which they can, in effect, 
sell part of the business to insiders.  While they’re at it, they 
often elect plans that produce the worst tax result for the 
company.) Except in highly unusual cases, owners are not well 
served by the sale of part of their business at a bargain price - 
whether the sale is to outsiders or to insiders.  The obvious 
conclusion: options should be priced at true business value.

     Third, I want to emphasize that some managers whom I admire 
enormously - and whose operating records are far better than mine 
- disagree with me regarding fixed-price options.  They have 
built corporate cultures that work, and fixed-price options have 
been a tool that helped them.  By their leadership and example, 
and by the use of options as incentives, these managers have 
taught their colleagues to think like owners.  Such a Culture is 
rare and when it exists should perhaps be left intact - despite 
inefficiencies and inequities that may infest the option program.  
“If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it” is preferable to “purity at any 
price”.

     At Berkshire, however, we use an incentive@compensation 
system that rewards key managers for meeting targets in their own 
bailiwicks.  If See’s does well, that does not produce incentive 
compensation at the News - nor vice versa.  Neither do we look at 
the price of Berkshire stock when we write bonus checks.  We 
believe good unit performance should be rewarded whether 
Berkshire stock rises, falls, or stays even.  Similarly, we think 
average performance should earn no special rewards even if our 
stock should soar.  “Performance”, furthermore, is defined in 
different ways depending upon the underlying economics of the 
business: in some our managers enjoy tailwinds not of their own 
making, in others they fight unavoidable headwinds.

     The rewards that go with this system can be large.  At our 
various business units, top managers sometimes receive incentive 
bonuses of five times their base salary, or more, and it would 
appear possible that one manager’s bonus could top $2 million in 
1986. (I hope so.) We do not put a cap on bonuses, and the 
potential for rewards is not hierarchical.  The manager of a 
relatively small unit can earn far more than the manager of a 
larger unit if results indicate he should.  We believe, further, 
that such factors as seniority and age should not affect 
incentive compensation (though they sometimes influence basic 
compensation).  A 20-year-old who can hit .300 is as valuable to 
us as a 40-year-old performing as well.

     Obviously, all Berkshire managers can use their bonus money 
(or other funds, including borrowed money) to buy our stock in 
the market.  Many have done just that - and some now have large 
holdings.  By accepting both the risks and the carrying costs 
that go with outright purchases, these managers truly walk in the 
shoes of owners.

     Now let’s get back - at long last - to our three businesses:

     At Nebraska Furniture Mart our basic strength is an 
exceptionally low-cost operation that allows the business to 
regularly offer customers the best values available in home 
furnishings.  NFM is the largest store of its kind in the 
country.  Although the already-depressed farm economy worsened 
considerably in 1985, the store easily set a new sales record.  I 
also am happy to report that NFM’s Chairman, Rose Blumkin (the 
legendary “Mrs.  B”), continues at age 92 to set a pace at the 
store that none of us can keep up with.  She’s there wheeling and 
dealing seven days a week, and I hope that any of you who visit 
Omaha will go out to the Mart and see her in action.  It will 
inspire you, as it does me.

     At See’s we continue to get store volumes that are far 
beyond those achieved by any competitor we know of.  Despite the 
unmatched consumer acceptance we enjoy, industry trends are not 
good, and we continue to experience slippage in poundage sales on 
a same-store basis.  This puts pressure on per-pound costs.  We 
now are willing to increase prices only modestly and, unless we 
can stabilize per-shop poundage, profit margins will narrow.

     At the News volume gains are also difficult to achieve.  
Though linage increased during 1985, the gain was more than 
accounted for by preprints.  ROP linage (advertising printed on 
our own pages) declined.  Preprints are far less profitable than 
ROP ads, and also more vulnerable to competition.  In 1985, the 
News again controlled costs well and our household penetration 
continues to be exceptional.

     One problem these three operations do not have is 
management.  At See’s we have Chuck Huggins, the man we put in 
charge the day we bought the business.  Selecting him remains one 
of our best business decisions.  At the News we have Stan Lipsey, 
a manager of equal caliber.  Stan has been with us 17 years, and 
his unusual business talents have become more evident with every 
additional level of responsibility he has tackled.  And, at the 
Mart, we have the amazing Blumkins - Mrs. B, Louie, Ron, Irv, and 
Steve - a three-generation miracle of management.

     I consider myself extraordinarily lucky to be able to work 
with managers such as these.  I like them personally as much as I 
admire them professionally.

Insurance Operations

     Shown below is an updated version of our usual table, 
listing two key figures for the insurance industry:

                         Yearly Change       Combined Ratio
                          in Premiums      after Policyholder
                          Written (%)          Dividends
                         -------------     ------------------
     1972 ...............    10.2                  96.2
     1973 ...............     8.0                  99.2
     1974 ...............     6.2                 105.4
     1975 ...............    11.0                 107.9
     1976 ...............    21.9                 102.4
     1977 ...............    19.8                  97.2
     1978 ...............    12.8                  97.5
     1979 ...............    10.3                 100.6
     1980 ...............     6.0                 103.1
     1981 ...............     3.9                 106.0
     1982 ...............     4.4                 109.7
     1983 ...............     4.5                 111.9
     1984 (Revised) .....     9.2                 117.9
     1985 (Estimated) ...    20.9                 118.0

Source: Best’s Aggregates and Averages

     The combined ratio represents total insurance costs (losses 
incurred plus expenses) compared to revenue from premiums: a 
ratio below 100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 
100 indicates a loss.

     The industry’s 1985 results were highly unusual.  The 
revenue gain was exceptional, and had insured losses grown at 
their normal rate of most recent years - that is, a few points 
above the inflation rate - a significant drop in the combined 
ratio would have occurred.  But losses in 1985 didn’t cooperate, 
as they did not in 1984.  Though inflation slowed considerably in 
these years, insured losses perversely accelerated, growing by 
16% in 1984 and by an even more startling 17% in 1985.  The 
year’s growth in losses therefore exceeds the inflation rate by 
over 13 percentage points, a modern record.

     Catastrophes were not the culprit in this explosion of loss 
cost.  True, there were an unusual number of hurricanes in 1985, 
but the aggregate damage caused by all catastrophes in 1984 and 
1985 was about 2% of premium volume, a not unusual proportion.  
Nor was there any burst in the number of insured autos, houses, 
employers, or other kinds of “exposure units”.

     A partial explanation for the surge in the loss figures is 
all the additions to reserves that the industry made in 1985.  As 
results for the year were reported, the scene resembled a revival 
meeting: shouting “I’ve sinned, I’ve sinned”, insurance managers 
rushed forward to confess they had under reserved in earlier 
years.  Their corrections significantly affected 1985 loss 
numbers.

     A more disturbing ingredient in the loss surge is the 
acceleration in “social” or “judicial” inflation.  The insurer’s 
ability to pay has assumed overwhelming importance with juries 
and judges in the assessment of both liability and damages.  More 
and more, “the deep pocket” is being sought and found, no matter 
what the policy wording, the facts, or the precedents.

     This judicial inflation represents a wild card in the 
industry’s future, and makes forecasting difficult.  
Nevertheless, the short-term outlook is good.  Premium growth 
improved as 1985 went along (quarterly gains were an estimated 
15%, 19%, 24%, and 22%) and, barring a supercatastrophe, the 
industry’s combined ratio should fall sharply in 1986.

     The profit improvement, however, is likely to be of short 
duration.  Two economic principles will see to that.  First, 
commodity businesses achieve good levels of profitability only 
when prices are fixed in some manner or when capacity is short.  
Second, managers quickly add to capacity when prospects start to 
improve and capital is available.

     In my 1982 report to you, I discussed the commodity nature 
of the insurance industry extensively.  The typical policyholder 
does not differentiate between products but concentrates instead 
on price.  For many decades a cartel-like procedure kept prices 
up, but this arrangement has disappeared for good.  The insurance 
product now is priced as any other commodity for which a free 
market exists: when capacity is tight, prices will be set 
remuneratively; otherwise, they will not be.

     Capacity currently is tight in many lines of insurance - 
though in this industry, unlike most, capacity is an attitudinal 
concept, not a physical fact.  Insurance managers can write 
whatever amount of business they feel comfortable writing, 
subject only to pressures applied by regulators and Best’s, the 
industry’s authoritative rating service.  The comfort level of 
both managers and regulators is tied to capital.  More capital 
means more comfort, which in turn means more capacity.  In the 
typical commodity business, furthermore, such as aluminum or 
steel, a long gestation precedes the birth of additional 
capacity.  In the insurance industry, capital can be secured 
instantly.  Thus, any capacity shortage can be eliminated in 
short order.

     That’s exactly what’s going on right now.  In 1985, about 15 
insurers raised well over $3 billion, piling up capital so that 
they can write all the business possible at the better prices now 
available.  The capital-raising trend has accelerated 
dramatically so far in 1986.

     If capacity additions continue at this rate, it won’t be 
long before serious price-cutting appears and next a fall in 
profitability.  When the fall comes, it will be the fault of the 
capital-raisers of 1985 and 1986, not the price-cutters of 198X. 
(Critics should be understanding, however: as was the case in our 
textile example, the dynamics of capitalism cause each insurer to 
make decisions that for itself appear sensible, but that 
collectively slash profitability.)

     In past reports, I have told you that Berkshire’s strong 
capital position - the best in the industry - should one day 
allow us to claim a distinct competitive advantage in the 
insurance market.  With the tightening of the market, that day 
arrived.  Our premium volume more than tripled last year, 
following a long period of stagnation.  Berkshire’s financial 
strength (and our record of maintaining unusual strength through 
thick and thin) is now a major asset for us in securing good 
business.

     We correctly foresaw a flight to quality by many large 
buyers of insurance and reinsurance who belatedly recognized that 
a policy is only an IOU - and who, in 1985, could not collect on 
many of their IOUs.  These buyers today are attracted to 
Berkshire because of its strong capital position.  But, in a 
development we did not foresee, we also are finding buyers drawn 
to us because our ability to insure substantial risks sets us 
apart from the crowd.

     To understand this point, you need a few background facts 
about large risks.  Traditionally, many insurers have wanted to 
write this kind of business.  However, their willingness to do so 
has been almost always based upon reinsurance arrangements that 
allow the insurer to keep just a small portion of the risk itself 
while passing on (“laying off”) most of the risk to its 
reinsurers.  Imagine, for example, a directors and officers 
(“D & O”) liability policy providing $25 million of coverage.  
By various “excess-of-loss” reinsurance contracts, the company 
issuing that policy might keep the liability for only the first 
$1 million of any loss that occurs.  The liability for any loss 
above that amount up to $24 million would be borne by the 
reinsurers of the issuing insurer.  In trade parlance, a company 
that issues large policies but retains relatively little of the 
risk for its own account writes a large gross line but a small 
net line.

     In any reinsurance arrangement, a key question is how the 
premiums paid for the policy should be divided among the various 
“layers” of risk.  In our D & O policy, for example. what part of 
the premium received should be kept by the issuing company to 
compensate it fairly for taking the first $1 million of risk and 
how much should be passed on to the reinsurers to compensate them 
fairly for taking the risk between $1 million and $25 million?

     One way to solve this problem might be deemed the Patrick 
Henry approach: “I have but one lamp by which my feet are guided, 
and that is the lamp of experience.” In other words, how much of 
the total premium would reinsurers have needed in the past to 
compensate them fairly for the losses they actually had to bear?

     Unfortunately, the lamp of experience has always provided 
imperfect illumination for reinsurers because so much of their 
business is “long-tail”, meaning it takes many years before they 
know what their losses are.  Lately, however, the light has not 
only been dim but also grossly misleading in the images it has 
revealed.  That is, the courts’ tendency to grant awards that are 
both huge and lacking in precedent makes reinsurers’ usual 
extrapolations or inferences from past data a formula for 
disaster.  Out with Patrick Henry and in with Pogo: “The future 
ain’t what it used to be.”

     The burgeoning uncertainties of the business, coupled with 
the entry into reinsurance of many unsophisticated participants, 
worked in recent years in favor of issuing companies writing a 
small net line: they were able to keep a far greater percentage 
of the premiums than the risk.  By doing so, the issuing 
companies sometimes made money on business that was distinctly 
unprofitable for the issuing and reinsuring companies combined. 
(This result was not necessarily by intent: issuing companies 
generally knew no more than reinsurers did about the ultimate 
costs that would be experienced at higher layers of risk.) 
Inequities of this sort have been particularly pronounced in 
lines of insurance in which much change was occurring and losses 
were soaring; e.g., professional malpractice, D & 0, products 
liability, etc.  Given these circumstances, it is not surprising 
that issuing companies remained enthusiastic about writing 
business long after premiums became woefully inadequate on a 
gross basis.

     An example of just how disparate results have been for 
issuing companies versus their reinsurers is provided by the 1984 
financials of one of the leaders in large and unusual risks.  In 
that year the company wrote about $6 billion of business and kept 
around $2 1/2 billion of the premiums, or about 40%.  It gave the 
remaining $3 1/2 billion to reinsurers.  On the part of the 
business kept, the company’s underwriting loss was less than $200 
million - an excellent result in that year.  Meanwhile, the part 
laid off produced a loss of over $1.5 billion for the reinsurers.  
Thus, the issuing company wrote at a combined ratio of well under 
110 while its reinsurers, participating in precisely the same 
policies, came in considerably over 140.  This result was not 
attributable to natural catastrophes; it came from run-of-the-
mill insurance losses (occurring, however, in surprising 
frequency and size).  The issuing company’s 1985 report is not 
yet available, but I would predict it will show that dramatically 
unbalanced results continued.

     A few years such as this, and even slow-witted reinsurers 
can lose interest, particularly in explosive lines where the 
proper split in premium between issuer and reinsurer remains 
impossible to even roughly estimate.  The behavior of reinsurers 
finally becomes like that of Mark Twain’s cat: having once sat on 
a hot stove, it never did so again - but it never again sat on a 
cold stove, either.  Reinsurers have had so many unpleasant 
surprises in long-tail casualty lines that many have decided 
(probably correctly) to give up the game entirely, regardless of 
price inducements.  Consequently, there has been a dramatic pull-
back of reinsurance capacity in certain important lines.

     This development has left many issuing companies under 
pressure.  They can no longer commit their reinsurers, time after 
time, for tens of millions per policy as they so easily could do 
only a year or two ago, and they do not have the capital and/or 
appetite to take on large risks for their own account.  For many 
issuing companies, gross capacity has shrunk much closer to net 
capacity - and that is often small, indeed.

     At Berkshire we have never played the lay-it-off-at-a-profit 
game and, until recently, that put us at a severe disadvantage in 
certain lines.  Now the tables are turned: we have the 
underwriting capability whereas others do not.  If we believe the 
price to be right, we are willing to write a net line larger than 
that of any but the largest insurers.  For instance, we are 
perfectly willing to risk losing $10 million of our own money on 
a single event, as long as we believe that the price is right and 
that the risk of loss is not significantly correlated with other 
risks we are insuring.  Very few insurers are willing to risk 
half that much on single events - although, just a short while 
ago, many were willing to lose five or ten times that amount as 
long as virtually all of the loss was for the account of their 
reinsurers.

     In mid-1985 our largest insurance company, National 
Indemnity Company, broadcast its willingness to underwrite large 
risks by running an ad in three issues of an insurance weekly.  
The ad solicited policies of only large size: those with a 
minimum premium of $1 million.  This ad drew a remarkable 600 
replies and ultimately produced premiums totaling about $50 
million. (Hold the applause: it’s all long-tail business and it 
will be at least five years before we know whether this marketing 
success was also an underwriting success.) Today, our insurance 
subsidiaries continue to be sought out by brokers searching for 
large net capacity.

     As I have said, this period of tightness will pass; insurers 
and reinsurers will return to underpricing.  But for a year or 
two we should do well in several segments of our insurance 
business.  Mike Goldberg has made many important improvements in 
the operation (prior mismanagement by your Chairman having 
provided him ample opportunity to do so).  He has been 
particularly successful recently in hiring young managers with 
excellent potential.  They will have a chance to show their stuff 
in 1986.

     Our combined ratio has improved - from 134 in 1984 to 111 in 
1985 - but continues to reflect past misdeeds.  Last year I told 
you of the major mistakes I had made in loss-reserving, and 
promised I would update you annually on loss-development figures.  
Naturally, I made this promise thinking my future record would be 
much improved.  So far this has not been the case.  Details on 
last year’s loss development are on pages 50-52.  They reveal 
significant underreserving at the end of 1984, as they did in the 
several years preceding.

     The only bright spot in this picture is that virtually all 
of the underreserving revealed in 1984 occurred in the 
reinsurance area - and there, in very large part, in a few 
contracts that were discontinued several years ago.  This 
explanation, however, recalls all too well a story told me many 
years ago by the then Chairman of General Reinsurance Company.  
He said that every year his managers told him that “except for 
the Florida hurricane” or “except for Midwestern tornadoes”, they 
would have had a terrific year.  Finally he called the group 
together and suggested that they form a new operation - the 
Except-For Insurance Company - in which they would henceforth 
place all of the business that they later wouldn’t want to count.

     In any business, insurance or otherwise, “except for” should 
be excised from the lexicon.  If you are going to play the game, 
you must count the runs scored against you in all nine innings.  
Any manager who consistently says “except for” and then reports 
on the lessons he has learned from his mistakes may be missing 
the only important lesson - namely, that the real mistake is not 
the act, but the actor.

     Inevitably, of course, business errors will occur and the 
wise manager will try to find the proper lessons in them.  But 
the trick is to learn most lessons from the experiences of 
others.  Managers who have learned much from personal experience 
in the past usually are destined to learn much from personal 
experience in the future.

     GEICO, 38%-owned by Berkshire, reported an excellent year in 
1985 in premium growth and investment results, but a poor year - 
by its lofty standards - in underwriting.  Private passenger auto 
and homeowners insurance were the only important lines in the 
industry whose results deteriorated significantly during the 
year.  GEICO did not escape the trend, although its record was 
far better than that of virtually all its major competitors.

     Jack Byrne left GEICO at mid-year to head Fireman’s Fund, 
leaving behind Bill Snyder as Chairman and Lou Simpson as Vice 
Chairman.  Jack’s performance in reviving GEICO from near-
bankruptcy was truly extraordinary, and his work resulted in 
enormous gains for Berkshire.  We owe him a great deal for that.

     We are equally indebted to Jack for an achievement that 
eludes most outstanding leaders: he found managers to succeed him 
who have talents as valuable as his own.  By his skill in 
identifying, attracting and developing Bill and Lou, Jack 
extended the benefits of his managerial stewardship well beyond 
his tenure.

Fireman’s Fund Quota-Share Contract

     Never one to let go of a meal ticket, we have followed Jack 
Byrne to Fireman’s Fund (“FFIC”) where he is Chairman and CEO of 
the holding company.

     On September 1, 1985 we became a 7% participant in all of 
the business in force of the FFIC group, with the exception of 
reinsurance they write for unaffiliated companies.  Our contract 
runs for four years, and provides that our losses and costs will 
be proportionate to theirs throughout the contract period.  If 
there is no extension, we will thereafter have no participation 
in any ongoing business.  However, for a great many years in the 
future, we will be reimbursing FFIC for our 7% of the losses that 
occurred in the September 1, 1985 - August 31, 1989 period.

     Under the contract FFIC remits premiums to us promptly and 
we reimburse FFIC promptly for expenses and losses it has paid.  
Thus, funds generated by our share of the business are held by us 
for investment.  As part of the deal, I’m available to FFIC for 
consultation about general investment strategy.  I’m not 
involved, however, in specific investment decisions of FFIC, nor 
is Berkshire involved in any aspect of the company’s underwriting 
activities.

     Currently FFIC is doing about $3 billion of business, and it 
will probably do more as rates rise.  The company’s September 1, 
1985 unearned premium reserve was $1.324 billion, and it 
therefore transferred 7% of this, or $92.7 million, to us at 
initiation of the contract.  We concurrently paid them $29.4 
million representing the underwriting expenses that they had 
incurred on the transferred premium.  All of the FFIC business is 
written by National Indemnity Company, but two-sevenths of it is 
passed along to Wesco-Financial Insurance Company (“Wes-FIC”), a 
new company organized by our 80%-owned subsidiary, Wesco 
Financial Corporation.  Charlie Munger has some interesting 
comments about Wes-FIC and the reinsurance business on pages 60-
62.

     To the Insurance Segment tables on page 41, we have added a 
new line, labeled Major Quota Share Contracts.  The 1985 results 
of the FFIC contract are reported there, though the newness of 
the arrangement makes these results only very rough 
approximations.

After the end of the year, we secured another quota-share 
contract, whose 1986 volume should be over $50 million.  We hope 
to develop more of this business, and industry conditions suggest 
that we could: a significant number of companies are generating 
more business than they themselves can prudently handle.  Our 
financial strength makes us an attractive partner for such 
companies.

Marketable Securities

We show below our 1985 yearend net holdings in marketable 
equities.  All positions with a market value over $25 million are 
listed, and the interests attributable to minority shareholders 
of Wesco and Nebraska Furniture Mart are excluded.

No. of Shares                                           Cost       Market
-------------                                        ----------  ----------
                                                         (000s omitted)
  1,036,461    Affiliated Publications, Inc. .......   $ 3,516    $  55,710
    900,800    American Broadcasting Companies, Inc.    54,435      108,997
  2,350,922    Beatrice Companies, Inc. ............   106,811      108,142
  6,850,000    GEICO Corporation ...................    45,713      595,950
  2,379,200    Handy & Harman ......................    27,318       43,718
    847,788    Time, Inc. ..........................    20,385       52,669
  1,727,765    The Washington Post Company .........     9,731      205,172
                                                     ----------  ----------
                                                       267,909    1,170,358
               All Other Common Stockholdings ......     7,201       27,963
                                                     ----------  ----------
               Total Common Stocks                    $275,110   $1,198,321
                                                     ==========  ==========

     We mentioned earlier that in the past decade the investment 
environment has changed from one in which great businesses were 
totally unappreciated to one in which they are appropriately 
recognized.  The Washington Post Company (“WPC”) provides an 
excellent example.

     We bought all of our WPC holdings in mid-1973 at a price of 
not more than one-fourth of the then per-share business value of 
the enterprise.  Calculating the price/value ratio required no 
unusual insights.  Most security analysts, media brokers, and 
media executives would have estimated WPC’s intrinsic business 
value at $400 to $500 million just as we did.  And its $100 
million stock market valuation was published daily for all to 
see.  Our advantage, rather, was attitude: we had learned from 
Ben Graham that the key to successful investing was the purchase 
of shares in good businesses when market prices were at a large 
discount from underlying business values.

     Most institutional investors in the early 1970s, on the 
other hand, regarded business value as of only minor relevance 
when they were deciding the prices at which they would buy or 
sell.  This now seems hard to believe.  However, these 
institutions were then under the spell of academics at 
prestigious business schools who were preaching a newly-fashioned 
theory: the stock market was totally efficient, and therefore 
calculations of business value - and even thought, itself - were 
of no importance in investment activities. (We are enormously 
indebted to those academics: what could be more advantageous in 
an intellectual contest - whether it be bridge, chess, or stock 
selection than to have opponents who have been taught that 
thinking is a waste of energy?)

     Through 1973 and 1974, WPC continued to do fine as a 
business, and intrinsic value grew.  Nevertheless, by yearend 
1974 our WPC holding showed a loss of about 25%, with market 
value at $8 million against our cost of $10.6 million.  What we 
had thought ridiculously cheap a year earlier had become a good 
bit cheaper as the market, in its infinite wisdom, marked WPC 
stock down to well below 20 cents on the dollar of intrinsic 
value.

     You know the happy outcome.  Kay Graham, CEO of WPC, had the 
brains and courage to repurchase large quantities of stock for 
the company at those bargain prices, as well as the managerial 
skills necessary to dramatically increase business values.  
Meanwhile, investors began to recognize the exceptional economics 
of the business and the stock price moved closer to underlying 
value.  Thus, we experienced a triple dip: the company’s business 
value soared upward, per-share business value increased 
considerably faster because of stock repurchases and, with a 
narrowing of the discount, the stock price outpaced the gain in 
per-share business value.

     We hold all of the WPC shares we bought in 1973, except for 
those sold back to the company in 1985’s proportionate 
redemption.  Proceeds from the redemption plus yearend market 
value of our holdings total $221 million.

     If we had invested our $10.6 million in any of a half-dozen 
media companies that were investment favorites in mid-1973, the 
value of our holdings at yearend would have been in the area of 
$40 - $60 million.  Our gain would have far exceeded the gain in 
the general market, an outcome reflecting the exceptional 
economics of the media business.  The extra $160 million or so we 
gained through ownership of WPC came, in very large part, from 
the superior nature of the managerial decisions made by Kay as 
compared to those made by managers of most media companies.  Her 
stunning business success has in large part gone unreported but 
among Berkshire shareholders it should not go unappreciated.

     Our Capital Cities purchase, described in the next section, 
required me to leave the WPC Board early in 1986.  But we intend 
to hold indefinitely whatever WPC stock FCC rules allow us to.  
We expect WPC’s business values to grow at a reasonable rate, and 
we know that management is both able and shareholder-oriented.  
However, the market now values the company at over $1.8 billion, 
and there is no way that the value can progress from that level 
at a rate anywhere close to the rate possible when the company’s 
valuation was only $100 million.  Because market prices have also 
been bid up for our other holdings, we face the same vastly-
reduced potential throughout our portfolio.

     You will notice that we had a significant holding in 
Beatrice Companies at yearend.  This is a short-term arbitrage 
holding - in effect, a parking place for money (though not a 
totally safe one, since deals sometimes fall through and create 
substantial losses).  We sometimes enter the arbitrage field when 
we have more money than ideas, but only to participate in 
announced mergers and sales.  We would be a lot happier if the 
funds currently employed on this short-term basis found a long-
term home.  At the moment, however, prospects are bleak.

     At yearend our insurance subsidiaries had about $400 million 
in tax-exempt bonds, of which $194 million at amortized cost were 
issues of Washington Public Power Supply System (“WPPSS”) 
Projects 1, 2, and 3. 1 discussed this position fully last year, 
and explained why we would not disclose further purchases or 
sales until well after the fact (adhering to the policy we follow 
on stocks).  Our unrealized gain on the WPPSS bonds at yearend 
was $62 million, perhaps one-third arising from the upward 
movement of bonds generally, and the remainder from a more 
positive investor view toward WPPSS 1, 2, and 3s.  Annual tax-
exempt income from our WPPSS issues is about $30 million.

Capital Cities/ABC, Inc.

     Right after yearend, Berkshire purchased 3 million shares of 
Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. (“Cap Cities”) at $172.50 per share, the 
market price of such shares at the time the commitment was made 
early in March, 1985.  I’ve been on record for many years about 
the management of Cap Cities: I think it is the best of any 
publicly-owned company in the country.  And Tom Murphy and Dan 
Burke are not only great managers, they are precisely the sort of 
fellows that you would want your daughter to marry.  It is a 
privilege to be associated with them - and also a lot of fun, as 
any of you who know them will understand.

     Our purchase of stock helped Cap Cities finance the $3.5 
billion acquisition of American Broadcasting Companies.  For Cap 
Cities, ABC is a major undertaking whose economics are likely to 
be unexciting over the next few years.  This bothers us not an 
iota; we can be very patient. (No matter how great the talent or 
effort, some things just take time: you can’t produce a baby in 
one month by getting nine women pregnant.)

     As evidence of our confidence, we have executed an unusual 
agreement: for an extended period Tom, as CEO (or Dan, should he 
be CEO) votes our stock.  This arrangement was initiated by 
Charlie and me, not by Tom.  We also have restricted ourselves in 
various ways regarding sale of our shares.  The object of these 
restrictions is to make sure that our block does not get sold to 
anyone who is a large holder (or intends to become a large 
holder) without the approval of management, an arrangement 
similar to ones we initiated some years ago at GEICO and 
Washington Post.

     Since large blocks frequently command premium prices, some 
might think we have injured Berkshire financially by creating 
such restrictions.  Our view is just the opposite.  We feel the 
long-term economic prospects for these businesses - and, thus, 
for ourselves as owners - are enhanced by the arrangements.  With 
them in place, the first-class managers with whom we have aligned 
ourselves can focus their efforts entirely upon running the 
businesses and maximizing long-term values for owners.  Certainly 
this is much better than having those managers distracted by 
“revolving-door capitalists” hoping to put the company “in play”. 
(Of course, some managers place their own interests above those 
of the company and its owners and deserve to be shaken up - but, 
in making investments, we try to steer clear of this type.)

     Today, corporate instability is an inevitable consequence of 
widely-diffused ownership of voting stock.  At any time a major 
holder can surface, usually mouthing reassuring rhetoric but 
frequently harboring uncivil intentions.  By circumscribing our 
blocks of stock as we often do, we intend to promote stability 
where it otherwise might be lacking.  That kind of certainty, 
combined with a good manager and a good business, provides 
excellent soil for a rich financial harvest.  That’s the economic 
case for our arrangements.

     The human side is just as important.  We don’t want managers 
we like and admire - and who have welcomed a major financial 
commitment by us - to ever lose any sleep wondering whether 
surprises might occur because of our large ownership.  I have 
told them there will be no surprises, and these agreements put 
Berkshire’s signature where my mouth is.  That signature also 
means the managers have a corporate commitment and therefore need 
not worry if my personal participation in Berkshire’s affairs 
ends prematurely (a term I define as any age short of three 
digits).

     Our Cap Cities purchase was made at a full price, reflecting 
the very considerable enthusiasm for both media stocks and media 
properties that has developed in recent years (and that, in the 
case of some property purchases, has approached a mania). it’s no 
field for bargains.  However, our Cap Cities investment allies us 
with an exceptional combination of properties and people - and we 
like the opportunity to participate in size.

     Of course, some of you probably wonder why we are now buying 
Cap Cities at $172.50 per share given that your Chairman, in a 
characteristic burst of brilliance, sold Berkshire’s holdings in 
the same company at $43 per share in 1978-80.  Anticipating your 
question, I spent much of 1985 working on a snappy answer that 
would reconcile these acts.

     A little more time, please.

Acquisition of Scott & Fetzer

     Right after yearend we acquired The Scott & Fetzer Company 
(“Scott Fetzer”) of Cleveland for about $320 million. (In 
addition, about $90 million of pre-existing Scott Fetzer debt 
remains in place.) In the next section of this report I describe 
the sort of businesses that we wish to buy for Berkshire.  Scott 
Fetzer is a prototype - understandable, large, well-managed, a 
good earner.

     The company has sales of about $700 million derived from 17 
businesses, many leaders in their fields.  Return on invested 
capital is good to excellent for most of these businesses.  Some 
well-known products are Kirby home-care systems, Campbell 
Hausfeld air compressors, and Wayne burners and water pumps.

     World Book, Inc. - accounting for about 40% of Scott 
Fetzer’s sales and a bit more of its income - is by far the 
company’s largest operation.  It also is by far the leader in its 
industry, selling more than twice as many encyclopedia sets 
annually as its nearest competitor.  In fact, it sells more sets 
in the U.S. than its four biggest competitors combined.

     Charlie and I have a particular interest in the World Book 
operation because we regard its encyclopedia as something 
special.  I’ve been a fan (and user) for 25 years, and now have 
grandchildren consulting the sets just as my children did.  World 
Book is regularly rated the most useful encyclopedia by teachers, 
librarians and consumer buying guides.  Yet it sells for less 
than any of its major competitors. Childcraft, another World 
Book, Inc. product, offers similar value.  This combination of 
exceptional products and modest prices at World Book, Inc. helped 
make us willing to pay the price demanded for Scott Fetzer, 
despite declining results for many companies in the direct-
selling industry.

     An equal attraction at Scott Fetzer is Ralph Schey, its CEO 
for nine years.  When Ralph took charge, the company had 31 
businesses, the result of an acquisition spree in the 1960s.  He 
disposed of many that did not fit or had limited profit 
potential, but his focus on rationalizing the original potpourri 
was not so intense that he passed by World Book when it became 
available for purchase in 1978.  Ralph’s operating and capital-
allocation record is superb, and we are delighted to be 
associated with him.

     The history of the Scott Fetzer acquisition is interesting, 
marked by some zigs and zags before we became involved.  The 
company had been an announced candidate for purchase since early 
1984.  A major investment banking firm spent many months 
canvassing scores of prospects, evoking interest from several.  
Finally, in mid-1985 a plan of sale, featuring heavy 
participation by an ESOP (Employee Stock Ownership Plan), was 
approved by shareholders.  However, as difficulty in closing 
followed, the plan was scuttled.

     I had followed this corporate odyssey through the 
newspapers.  On October 10, well after the ESOP deal had fallen 
through, I wrote a short letter to Ralph, whom I did not know.  I 
said we admired the company’s record and asked if he might like 
to talk.  Charlie and I met Ralph for dinner in Chicago on 
October 22 and signed an acquisition contract the following week.

     The Scott Fetzer acquisition, plus major growth in our 
insurance business, should push revenues above $2 billion in 
1986, more than double those of 1985.

Miscellaneous

     The Scott Fetzer purchase illustrates our somewhat haphazard 
approach to acquisitions.  We have no master strategy, no 
corporate planners delivering us insights about socioeconomic 
trends, and no staff to investigate a multitude of ideas 
presented by promoters and intermediaries.  Instead, we simply 
hope that something sensible comes along - and, when it does, we 
act.

     To give fate a helping hand, we again repeat our regular 
“business wanted” ad.  The only change from last year’s copy is 
in (1): because we continue to want any acquisition we make to 
have a measurable impact on Berkshire’s financial results, we 
have raised our minimum profit requirement.

     Here’s what we’re looking for:
     (1) large purchases (at least $10 million of after-tax 
         earnings),
     (2) demonstrated consistent earning power (future 
         projections are of little interest to us, nor are 
         “turn-around” situations),
     (3) businesses earning good returns on equity while 
         employing little or no debt,
     (4) management in place (we can’t supply it),
     (5) simple businesses (if there’s lots of technology, we 
         won’t understand it),
     (6) an offering price (we don’t want to waste our time 
         or that of the seller by talking, even preliminarily, 
         about a transaction when price is unknown).
 
     We will not engage in unfriendly takeovers.  We can promise 
complete confidentiality and a very fast answer - customarily 
within five minutes - as to whether we’re interested.  We prefer 
to buy for cash, but will consider issuance of stock when we 
receive as much in intrinsic business value as we give.  Indeed, 
following recent advances in the price of Berkshire stock, 
transactions involving stock issuance may be quite feasible.  We 
invite potential sellers to check us out by contacting people 
with whom we have done business in the past.  For the right 
business - and the right people - we can provide a good home.

     On the other hand, we frequently get approached about 
acquisitions that don’t come close to meeting our tests: new 
ventures, turnarounds, auction-like sales, and the ever-popular 
(among brokers) “I’m-sure-something-will-work-out-if-you-people-
get-to-know-each-other”.  None of these attracts us in the least.

                           *  *  *
 
     Besides being interested in the purchases of entire 
businesses as described above, we are also interested in the 
negotiated purchase of large, but not controlling, blocks of 
stock, as in our Cap Cities purchase.  Such purchases appeal to 
us only when we are very comfortable with both the economics of 
the business and the ability and integrity of the people running 
the operation.  We prefer large transactions: in the unusual case 
we might do something as small as $50 million (or even smaller), 
but our preference is for commitments many times that size.

                           *  *  *

     About 96.8% of all eligible shares participated in 
Berkshire’s 1985 shareholder-designated contributions program.  
Total contributions made through the program were $4 million, and 
1,724 charities were recipients.  We conducted a plebiscite last 
year in order to get your views about this program, as well as 
about our dividend policy.  (Recognizing that it’s possible to 
influence the answers to a question by the framing of it, we 
attempted to make the wording of ours as neutral as possible.) We 
present the ballot and the results in the Appendix on page 69. I 
think it’s fair to summarize your response as highly supportive 
of present policies and your group preference - allowing for the 
tendency of people to vote for the status quo - to be for 
increasing the annual charitable commitment as our asset values 
build.

     We urge new shareholders to read the description of our 
shareholder-designated contributions program that appears on 
pages 66 and 67.  If you wish to participate in future programs, 
we strongly urge that you immediately make sure that your shares 
are registered in the name of the actual owner, not in “street” 
name or nominee name.  Shares not so registered on September 30, 
1986 will be ineligible for the 1986 program.
 
                           *  *  *

     Five years ago we were required by the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1969 to dispose of our holdings in The Illinois National 
Bank and Trust Company of Rockford, Illinois.  Our method of 
doing so was unusual: we announced an exchange ratio between 
stock of Rockford Bancorp Inc. (the Illinois National’s holding 
company) and stock of Berkshire, and then let each of our 
shareholders - except me - make the decision as to whether to 
exchange all, part, or none of his Berkshire shares for Rockford 
shares.  I took the Rockford stock that was left over and thus my 
own holding in Rockford was determined by your decisions.  At the 
time I said, “This technique embodies the world’s oldest and most 
elementary system of fairly dividing an object.  Just as when you 
were a child and one person cut the cake and the other got first 
choice, I have tried to cut the company fairly, but you get first 
choice as to which piece you want.”

     Last fall Illinois National was sold.  When Rockford’s 
liquidation is completed, its shareholders will have received 
per-share proceeds about equal to Berkshire’s per-share intrinsic 
value at the time of the bank’s sale.  I’m pleased that this 
five-year result indicates that the division of the cake was 
reasonably equitable.
 
     Last year I put in a plug for our annual meeting, and you 
took me up on the invitation.  Over 250 of our more than 3,000 
registered shareholders showed up.  Those attending behaved just 
as those present in previous years, asking the sort of questions 
you would expect from intelligent and interested owners.  You can 
attend a great many annual meetings without running into a crowd 
like ours. (Lester Maddox, when Governor of Georgia, was 
criticized regarding the state’s abysmal prison system.  “The 
solution”, he said, “is simple.  All we need is a better class of 
prisoners.” Upgrading annual meetings works the same way.)

     I hope you come to this year’s meeting, which will be held 
on May 20 in Omaha.  There will be only one change: after 48 
years of allegiance to another soft drink, your Chairman, in an 
unprecedented display of behavioral flexibility, has converted to 
the new Cherry Coke.  Henceforth, it will be the Official Drink 
of the Berkshire Hathaway Annual Meeting.

     And bring money: Mrs. B promises to have bargains galore if 
you will pay her a visit at The Nebraska Furniture Mart after the 
meeting.


                                           Warren E. Buffett
                                           Chairman of the Board

March 4, 1986









Chairman's Letter - 1986



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 


To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:

     Our gain in net worth during 1986 was $492.5 million, or 
26.1%.  Over the last 22 years (that is, since present management 
took over), our per-share book value has grown from $19.46 to 
$2,073.06, or 23.3% compounded annually.  Both the numerator and 
denominator are important in the per-share book value 
calculation: during the 22-year period our corporate net worth 
has increased 10,600% while shares outstanding have increased 
less than 1%.

     In past reports I have noted that book value at most 
companies differs widely from intrinsic business value - the 
number that really counts for owners.  In our own case, however, 
book value has served for more than a decade as a reasonable if 
somewhat conservative proxy for business value.  That is, our 
business value has moderately exceeded our book value, with the 
ratio between the two remaining fairly steady.

     The good news is that in 1986 our percentage gain in 
business value probably exceeded the book value gain.  I say 
"probably" because business value is a soft number: in our own 
case, two equally well-informed observers might make judgments 
more than 10% apart.

     A large measure of our improvement in business value 
relative to book value reflects the outstanding performance of 
key managers at our major operating businesses.  These managers - 
the Blumkins, Mike Goldberg, the Heldmans, Chuck Huggins, Stan 
Lipsey, and Ralph Schey - have over the years improved the 
earnings of their businesses dramatically while, except in the 
case of insurance, utilizing little additional capital.  This 
accomplishment builds economic value, or "Goodwill," that does 
not show up in the net worth figure on our balance sheet, nor in 
our per-share book value.  In 1986 this unrecorded gain was 
substantial.

     So much for the good news.  The bad news is that my 
performance did not match that of our managers.  While they were 
doing a superb job in running our businesses, I was unable to 
skillfully deploy much of the capital they generated.
 
     Charlie Munger, our Vice Chairman, and I really have only 
two jobs.  One is to attract and keep outstanding managers to run 
our various operations.  This hasn’t been all that difficult.  
Usually the managers came with the companies we bought, having 
demonstrated their talents throughout careers that spanned a wide 
variety of business circumstances.  They were managerial stars 
long before they knew us, and our main contribution has been to 
not get in their way.  This approach seems elementary: if my job 
were to manage a golf team - and if Jack Nicklaus or Arnold 
Palmer were willing to play for me - neither would get a lot of 
directives from me about how to swing.

     Some of our key managers are independently wealthy (we hope 
they all become so), but that poses no threat to their continued 
interest: they work because they love what they do and relish the 
thrill of outstanding performance.  They unfailingly think like 
owners (the highest compliment we can pay a manager) and find all 
aspects of their business absorbing.

     (Our prototype for occupational fervor is the Catholic 
tailor who used his small savings of many years to finance a 
pilgrimage to the Vatican.  When he returned, his parish held a 
special meeting to get his first-hand account of the Pope.  "Tell 
us," said the eager faithful, "just what sort of fellow is he?" 
Our hero wasted no words: "He’s a forty-four, medium.")

     Charlie and I know that the right players will make almost 
any team manager look good.  We subscribe to the philosophy of 
Ogilvy & Mather’s founding genius, David Ogilvy: "If each of us 
hires people who are smaller than we are, we shall become a 
company of dwarfs.  But, if each of us hires people who are 
bigger than we are, we shall become a company of giants."

     A by-product of our managerial style is the ability it gives 
us to easily expand Berkshire’s activities.  We’ve read 
management treatises that specify exactly how many people should 
report to any one executive, but they make little sense to us.  
When you have able managers of high character running businesses 
about which they are passionate, you can have a dozen or more 
reporting to you and still have time for an afternoon nap.  
Conversely, if you have even one person reporting to you who is 
deceitful, inept or uninterested, you will find yourself with 
more than you can handle.  Charlie and I could work with double 
the number of managers we now have, so long as they had the rare 
qualities of the present ones.

     We intend to continue our practice of working only with 
people whom we like and admire.  This policy not only maximizes 
our chances for good results, it also ensures us an 
extraordinarily good time.  On the other hand, working with 
people who cause your stomach to churn seems much like marrying 
for money - probably a bad idea under any circumstances, but 
absolute madness if you are already rich.

     The second job Charlie and I must handle is the allocation 
of capital, which at Berkshire is a considerably more important 
challenge than at most companies.  Three factors make that so: we 
earn more money than average; we retain all that we earn; and, we 
are fortunate to have operations that, for the most part, require 
little incremental capital to remain competitive and to grow.  
Obviously, the future results of a business earning 23% annually 
and retaining it all are far more affected by today’s capital 
allocations than are the results of a business earning 10% and 
distributing half of that to shareholders.  If our retained 
earnings - and those of our major investees, GEICO and Capital 
Cities/ABC, Inc. - are employed in an unproductive manner, the 
economics of Berkshire will deteriorate very quickly.  In a 
company adding only, say, 5% to net worth annually, capital-
allocation decisions, though still important, will change the 
company’s economics far more slowly.

     Capital allocation at Berkshire was tough work in 1986.  We 
did make one business acquisition - The Fechheimer Bros.  
Company, which we will discuss in a later section.  Fechheimer is 
a company with excellent economics, run by exactly the kind of 
people with whom we enjoy being associated.  But it is relatively 
small, utilizing only about 2% of Berkshire’s net worth.

     Meanwhile, we had no new ideas in the marketable equities 
field, an area in which once, only a few years ago, we could 
readily employ large sums in outstanding businesses at very 
reasonable prices.  So our main capital allocation moves in 1986 
were to pay off debt and stockpile funds.  Neither is a fate 
worse than death, but they do not inspire us to do handsprings 
either.  If Charlie and I were to draw blanks for a few years in 
our capital-allocation endeavors, Berkshire’s rate of growth 
would slow significantly.

     We will continue to look for operating businesses that meet 
our tests and, with luck, will acquire such a business every 
couple of years.  But an acquisition will have to be large if it 
is to help our performance materially.  Under current stock 
market conditions, we have little hope of finding equities to buy 
for our insurance companies.  Markets will change significantly - 
you can be sure of that and some day we will again get our turn 
at bat.  However, we haven’t the faintest idea when that might 
happen.

     It can’t be said too often (although I’m sure you feel I’ve 
tried) that, even under favorable conditions, our returns are 
certain to drop substantially because of our enlarged size.  We 
have told you that we hope to average a return of 15% on equity 
and we maintain that hope, despite some negative tax law changes 
described in a later section of this report.  If we are to 
achieve this rate of return, our net worth must increase $7.2 
billion in the next ten years.  A gain of that magnitude will be 
possible only if, before too long, we come up with a few very big 
(and good) ideas.  Charlie and I can’t promise results, but we do 
promise you that we will keep our efforts focused on our goals.

Sources of Reported Earnings

     The table on the next page shows the major sources of 
Berkshire’s reported earnings.  This table differs in several 
ways from the one presented last year.  We have added four new 
lines of business because of the Scott Fetzer and Fechheimer 
acquisitions. In the case of Scott Fetzer, the two major units 
acquired were World Book and Kirby, and each is presented 
separately.  Fourteen other businesses of Scott Fetzer are 
aggregated in Scott Fetzer - Diversified Manufacturing.  SF 
Financial Group, a credit company holding both World Book and 
Kirby receivables, is included in "Other." This year, because 
Berkshire is so much larger, we also have eliminated separate 
reporting for several of our smaller businesses.

     In the table, amortization of Goodwill is not charged 
against the specific businesses but, for reasons outlined in the 
Appendix to my letter in the 1983 Annual Report, is aggregated as 
a separate item. (A Compendium of earlier letters, including the 
Goodwill discussion, is available upon request.) Both the Scott 
Fetzer and Fechheimer acquisitions created accounting Goodwill, 
which is why the amortization charge for Goodwill increased in 
1986.

     Additionally, the Scott Fetzer acquisition required other 
major purchase-price accounting adjustments, as prescribed by 
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  The GAAP 
figures, of course, are the ones used in our consolidated 
financial statements.  But, in our view, the GAAP figures are not 
necessarily the most useful ones for investors or managers.  
Therefore, the figures shown for specific operating units are 
earnings before purchase-price adjustments are taken into 
account.  In effect, these are the earnings that would have been 
reported by the businesses if we had not purchased them.

     A discussion of our reasons for preferring this form of 
presentation is in the Appendix to this letter.  This Appendix 
will never substitute for a steamy novel and definitely is not 
required reading.  However, I know that among our 6,000 
shareholders there are those who are thrilled by my essays on 
accounting - and I hope that both of you enjoy the Appendix.

     In the Business Segment Data on pages 41-43 and in the 
Management’s Discussion section on pages 45-49, you will find 
much additional information about our businesses.  I urge you to 
read those sections, as well as Charlie Munger’s letter to Wesco 
shareholders, describing the various businesses of that 
subsidiary, which starts on page 50.

                                               (000s omitted) 
                                 ------------------------------------------
                                                         Berkshire's Share 
                                                          of Net Earnings 
                                                         (after taxes and 
                                   Pre-Tax Earnings     minority interests)
                                 -------------------    -------------------
                                   1986       1985        1986       1985 
                                 --------   --------    --------   --------
Operating Earnings: 
  Insurance Group: 
    Underwriting ............... $(55,844)  $(44,230)   $(29,864)  $(23,569)
    Net Investment Income ......  107,143     95,217      96,440     79,716
  Buffalo News .................   34,736     29,921      16,918     14,580
  Fechheimer (Acquired 6/3/86)      8,400      ---         3,792      ---
  Kirby ........................   20,218      ---        10,508      ---
  Nebraska Furniture Mart ......   17,685     12,686       7,192      5,181
  Scott Fetzer - Diversified Mfg.  25,358      ---        13,354      ---
  See’s Candies ................   30,347     28,989      15,176     14,558
  Wesco - other than insurance      5,542     16,018       5,550      9,684
  World Book ...................   21,978      ---        11,670      ---
  Amortization of Goodwill         (2,555)    (1,475)     (2,555)    (1,475)
  Other purchase-price 
     accounting charges ........  (10,033)     ---       (11,031)     ---
  Interest on Debt and 
     Pre-Payment penalty .......  (23,891)   (14,415)    (12,213)    (7,288)
  Shareholder-Designated 
     Contributions .............   (3,997)    (4,006)     (2,158)    (2,164)
  Other ........................   20,770      6,744       8,685      3,725
                                 --------   --------    --------   --------
Operating Earnings .............  195,857    125,449     131,464     92,948
Special General Foods 
   Distribution ................    ---        4,127       ---        3,779
Special Washington Post 
   Distribution ................    ---	    14,877       ---       13,851
Sales of securities ............  216,242    468,903     150,897    325,237
                                 --------   --------    --------   --------
Total Earnings - all entities .. $412,099   $613,356    $282,361   $435,815
                                 ========   ========    ========   ========

     As you can see, operating earnings substantially improved 
during 1986.  Some of the improvement came from the insurance 
operation, whose results I will discuss in a later section.  
Fechheimer also will be discussed separately.  Our other major 
businesses performed as follows:

   o Operating results at The Buffalo News continue to reflect a 
truly superb managerial job by Stan Lipsey.  For the third year 
in a row, man-hours worked fell significantly and other costs 
were closely controlled.  Consequently, our operating margins 
improved materially in 1986, even though our advertising rate 
increases were well below those of most major newspapers.

     Our cost-control efforts have in no way reduced our 
commitment to news.  We continue to deliver a 50% "news hole" 
(the portion of the total space in the paper devoted to news), a 
higher percentage, we believe, than exists at any dominant 
newspaper in this country of our size or larger.

     The average news hole at papers comparable to the News is 
about 40%.  The difference between 40% and 50% is more important 
than it might first seem: a paper with 30 pages of ads and a 40% 
news hole delivers 20 pages of news a day, whereas our paper 
matches 30 pages of ads with 30 pages of news.  Therefore, given 
ad pages equal in number, we end up delivering our readers no 
less than 50% more news.

     We believe this heavy commitment to news is one of the 
reasons The Buffalo News has the highest weekday penetration rate 
(the percentage of households in the paper’s primary marketing 
area purchasing it each day) among any of the top 50 papers in 
the country.  Our Sunday penetration, where we are also number 
one, is even more impressive.  Ten years ago, the only Sunday 
paper serving Buffalo (the Courier-Express) had circulation of 
271,000 and a penetration ratio of about 63%.  The Courier-
Express had served the area for many decades and its penetration 
ratio - which was similar to those existing in many metropolitan 
markets - was thought to be a "natural" one, accurately 
reflecting the local citizenry’s appetite for a Sunday product.

     Our Sunday paper was started in late 1977.  It now has a 
penetration ratio of 83% and sells about 100,000 copies more each 
Sunday than did the Courier-Express ten years ago - even though 
population in our market area has declined during the decade.  In 
recent history, no other city that has long had a local Sunday 
paper has experienced a penetration gain anywhere close to 
Buffalo’s.

     Despite our exceptional market acceptance, our operating 
margins almost certainly have peaked.  A major newsprint price 
increase took effect at the end of 1986, and our advertising rate 
increases in 1987 will again be moderate compared to those of the 
industry.  However, even if margins should materially shrink, we 
would not reduce our news-hole ratio.

     As I write this, it has been exactly ten years since we 
purchased The News.  The financial rewards it has brought us have 
far exceeded our expectations and so, too, have the non-financial 
rewards.  Our respect for the News - high when we bought it - has 
grown consistently ever since the purchase, as has our respect 
and admiration for Murray Light, the editor who turns out the 
product that receives such extraordinary community acceptance.  
The efforts of Murray and Stan, which were crucial to the News 
during its dark days of financial reversals and litigation, have 
not in the least been lessened by prosperity.  Charlie and I are 
grateful to them.

   o The amazing Blumkins continue to perform business miracles 
at Nebraska Furniture Mart.  Competitors come and go (mostly go), 
but Mrs. B. and her progeny roll on.  In 1986 net sales increased 
10.2% to $132 million.  Ten years ago sales were $44 million and, 
even then, NFM appeared to be doing just about all of the 
business available in the Greater Omaha Area.  Given NFM’s 
remarkable dominance, Omaha’s slow growth in population and the 
modest inflation rates that have applied to the goods NFM sells, 
how can this operation continue to rack up such large sales 
gains?  The only logical explanation is that the marketing 
territory of NFM’s one-and-only store continues to widen because 
of its ever-growing reputation for rock-bottom everyday prices 
and the broadest of selections.  In preparation for further 
gains, NFM is expanding the capacity of its warehouse, located a 
few hundred yards from the store, by about one-third.

     Mrs. B, Chairman of Nebraska Furniture Mart, continues at 
age 93 to outsell and out-hustle any manager I’ve ever seen.  
She’s at the store seven days a week, from opening to close.  
Competing with her represents a triumph of courage over judgment.

     It’s easy to overlook what I consider to be the critical 
lesson of the Mrs. B saga: at 93, Omaha based Board Chairmen have 
yet to reach their peak.  Please file this fact away to consult 
before you mark your ballot at the 2024 annual meeting of 
Berkshire.

   o At See’s, sales trends improved somewhat from those of 
recent years.  Total pounds sold rose about 2%. (For you 
chocaholics who like to fantasize, one statistic: we sell over 
12,000 tons annually.) Same-store sales, measured in pounds, were 
virtually unchanged.  In the previous six years, same store 
poundage fell, and we gained or maintained poundage volume only 
by adding stores.  But a particularly strong Christmas season in 
1986 stemmed the decline.  By stabilizing same-store volume and 
making a major effort to control costs, See’s was able to 
maintain its excellent profit margin in 1986 though it put 
through only minimal price increases.  We have Chuck Huggins, our 
long-time manager at See’s, to thank for this significant 
achievement.

     See’s has a one-of-a-kind product "personality" produced by 
a combination of its candy’s delicious taste and moderate price, 
the company’s total control of the distribution process, and the 
exceptional service provided by store employees.  Chuck 
rightfully measures his success by the satisfaction of our 
customers, and his attitude permeates the organization.  Few 
major retailing companies have been able to sustain such a 
customer-oriented spirit, and we owe Chuck a great deal for 
keeping it alive and well at See’s.

     See’s profits should stay at about their present level.  We 
will continue to increase prices very modestly, merely matching 
prospective cost increases.

   o World Book is the largest of 17 Scott Fetzer operations 
that joined Berkshire at the beginning of 1986.  Last year I 
reported to you enthusiastically about the businesses of Scott 
Fetzer and about Ralph Schey, its manager.  A year’s experience 
has added to my enthusiasm for both.  Ralph is a superb 
businessman and a straight shooter.  He also brings exceptional 
versatility and energy to his job: despite the wide array of 
businesses that he manages, he is on top of the operations, 
opportunities and problems of each.  And, like our other 
managers, Ralph is a real pleasure to work with.  Our good 
fortune continues.

     World Book’s unit volume increased for the fourth 
consecutive year, with encyclopedia sales up 7% over 1985 and 45% 
over 1982.  Childcraft’s unit sales also grew significantly.

     World Book continues to dominate the U.S. direct-sales 
encyclopedia market - and for good reasons.  Extraordinarily 
well-edited and priced at under 5 cents per page, these books are 
a bargain for youngster and adult alike.  You may find one 
editing technique interesting: World Book ranks over 44,000 words 
by difficulty.  Longer entries in the encyclopedia include only 
the most easily comprehended words in the opening sections, with 
the difficulty of the material gradually escalating as the 
exposition proceeds.  As a result, youngsters can easily and 
profitably read to the point at which subject matter gets too 
difficult, instead of immediately having to deal with a 
discussion that mixes up words requiring college-level 
comprehension with others of fourth-grade level.  

     Selling World Book is a calling.  Over one-half of our 
active salespeople are teachers or former teachers, and another 
5% have had experience as librarians.  They correctly think of 
themselves as educators, and they do a terrific job.  If you 
don’t have a World Book set in your house, I recommend one.

   o Kirby likewise recorded its fourth straight year of unit 
volume gains.  Worldwide, unit sales grew 4% from 1985 and 33% 
from 1982.  While the Kirby product is more expensive than most 
cleaners, it performs in a manner that leaves cheaper units far 
behind ("in the dust," so to speak).  Many 30- and 40-year-old 
Kirby cleaners are still in active duty.  If you want the best, 
you buy a Kirby.

     Some companies that historically have had great success in 
direct sales have stumbled in recent years.  Certainly the era of 
the working woman has created new challenges for direct sales 
organizations.  So far, the record shows that both Kirby and 
World Book have responded most successfully.

     The businesses described above, along with the insurance 
operation and Fechheimer, constitute our major business units.  
The brevity of our descriptions is in no way meant to diminish 
the importance of these businesses to us.  All have been 
discussed in past annual reports and, because of the tendency of 
Berkshire owners to stay in the fold (about 98% of the stock at 
the end of each year is owned by people who were owners at the 
start of the year), we want to avoid undue repetition of basic 
facts.  You can be sure that we will immediately report to you in 
detail if the underlying economics or competitive position of any 
of these businesses should materially change.  In general, the 
businesses described in this section can be characterized as 
having very strong market positions, very high returns on capital 
employed, and the best of operating managements.

The Fechheimer Bros. Co.

     Every year in Berkshire’s annual report I include a 
description of the kind of business that we would like to buy.  
This "ad" paid off in 1986.

     On January 15th of last year I received a letter from Bob 
Heldman of Cincinnati, a shareholder for many years and also 
Chairman of Fechheimer Bros.  Until I read the letter, however, I 
did not know of either Bob or Fechheimer.  Bob wrote that he ran 
a company that met our tests and suggested that we get together, 
which we did in Omaha after their results for 1985 were compiled.

     He filled me in on a little history: Fechheimer, a uniform 
manufacturing and distribution business, began operations in 
1842.  Warren Heldman, Bob’s father, became involved in the 
business in 1941 and his sons, Bob and George (now President), 
along with their sons, subsequently joined the company.  Under 
the Heldmans’ management, the business was highly successful.

     In 1981 Fechheimer was sold to a group of venture 
capitalists in a leveraged buy out (an LBO), with management 
retaining an equity interest.  The new company, as is the case 
with all LBOS, started with an exceptionally high debt/equity 
ratio.  After the buy out, however, operations continued to be 
very successful.  So by the start of last year debt had been paid 
down substantially and the value of the equity had increased 
dramatically.  For a variety of reasons, the venture capitalists 
wished to sell and Bob, having dutifully read Berkshire’s annual 
reports, thought of us.

     Fechheimer is exactly the sort of business we like to buy.  
Its economic record is superb; its managers are talented, high-
grade, and love what they do; and the Heldman family wanted to 
continue its financial interest in partnership with us.  
Therefore, we quickly purchased about 84% of the stock for a 
price that was based upon a $55 million valuation for the entire 
business.

     The circumstances of this acquisition were similar to those 
prevailing in our purchase of Nebraska Furniture Mart: most of 
the shares were held by people who wished to employ funds 
elsewhere; family members who enjoyed running their business 
wanted to continue both as owners and managers; several 
generations of the family were active in the business, providing 
management for as far as the eye can see; and the managing family 
wanted a purchaser who would not re-sell, regardless of price, 
and who would let the business be run in the future as it had 
been in the past.  Both Fechheimer and NFM were right for us, and 
we were right for them.

     You may be amused to know that neither Charlie nor I have 
been to Cincinnati, headquarters for Fechheimer, to see their 
operation. (And, incidentally, it works both ways: Chuck Huggins, 
who has been running See’s for 15 years, has never been to 
Omaha.) If our success were to depend upon insights we developed 
through plant inspections, Berkshire would be in big trouble.  
Rather, in considering an acquisition, we attempt to evaluate the 
economic characteristics of the business - its competitive 
strengths and weaknesses - and the quality of the people we will 
be joining.  Fechheimer was a standout in both respects.  In 
addition to Bob and George Heldman, who are in their mid-60s - 
spring chickens by our standards - there are three members of the 
next generation, Gary, Roger and Fred, to insure continuity.

     As a prototype for acquisitions, Fechheimer has only one 
drawback: size.  We hope our next acquisition is at least several 
times as large but a carbon copy in all other respects.  Our 
threshold for minimum annual after-tax earnings of potential 
acquisitions has been moved up to $10 million from the $5 million 
level that prevailed when Bob wrote to me.

     Flushed with success, we repeat our ad.  If you have a 
business that fits, call me or, preferably, write.

     Here’s what we’re looking for: 
     (1) large purchases (at least $10 million of after-tax 
         earnings), 
     (2) demonstrated consistent earning power (future 
         projections are of little interest to us, nor are 
         "turn-around" situations), 
     (3) businesses earning good returns on equity while 
         employing little or no debt.  
     (4) management in place (we can’t supply it), 
     (5) simple businesses (if there’s lots of technology, we 
         won’t understand it), 
     (6) an offering price (we don’t want to waste our time 
         or that of the seller by talking, even preliminarily, 
         about a transaction when price is unknown).

     We will not engage in unfriendly takeovers.  We can promise 
complete confidentiality and a very fast answer - customarily 
within five minutes - as to whether we’re interested.  We prefer 
to buy for cash, but will consider issuing stock when we receive 
as much in intrinsic business value as we give.  Indeed, 
following recent advances in the price of Berkshire stock, 
transactions involving stock issuance may be quite feasible.  We 
invite potential sellers to check us out by contacting people 
with whom we have done business in the past.  For the right 
business - and the right people - we can provide a good home.  

     On the other hand, we frequently get approached about 
acquisitions that don’t come close to meeting our tests: new 
ventures, turnarounds, auction-like sales, and the ever-popular 
(among brokers) "I’m-sure-something-will-work-out-if-you-people-
get-to-know-each-other." None of these attracts us in the least.

                         *  *  *

     Besides being interested in the purchases of entire 
businesses as described above, we are also interested in the 
negotiated purchase of large, but not controlling, blocks of 
stock, as in our Cap Cities purchase.  Such purchases appeal to 
us only when we are very comfortable with both the economics of 
the business and the ability and integrity of the people running 
the operation.  We prefer large transactions: in the unusual case 
we might do something as small as $50 million (or even smaller), 
but our preference is for commitments many times that size.

Insurance Operations

     We present our usual table of industry figures, expanded 
this year to include data about incurred losses and the GNP 
inflation index.  The contrast in 1986 between the growth in 
premiums and growth in incurred losses will show you why 
underwriting results for the year improved materially:

                              Statutory
          Yearly Change    Combined Ratio    Yearly Change   Inflation Rate 
           in Premiums   After Policyholder   in Incurred     Measured by 
           Written (%)        Dividends        Losses (%)   GNP Deflator (%)
          -------------  ------------------  -------------  ----------------
1981 .....     3.8              106.0             6.5             9.7
1982 .....     4.4              109.8             8.4             6.4
1983 .....     4.6              112.0             6.8             3.9
1984 .....     9.2              117.9            16.9             3.8
1985 .....    22.1              116.5            16.1             3.3
1986 (Est.)   22.6              108.5            15.5             2.6

Source: Best’s Insurance Management Reports

     The combined ratio represents total insurance costs (losses 
incurred plus expenses) compared to revenue from premiums: a 
ratio below 100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 
100 indicates a loss.  When the investment income that an insurer 
earns from holding on to policyholders’ funds ("the float") is 
taken into account, a combined ratio in the 107-112 range 
typically produces an overall break-even result, exclusive of 
earnings on the funds provided by shareholders.

     The math of the insurance business, encapsulated by the 
table, is not very complicated.  In years when the industry’s 
annual gain in revenues (premiums) pokes along at 4% or 5%, 
underwriting losses are sure to mount.  This is not because auto 
accidents, fires, windstorms and the like are occurring more 
frequently, nor has it lately been the fault of general 
inflation.  Today, social and judicial inflation are the major 
culprits; the cost of entering a courtroom has simply ballooned.  
Part of the jump in cost arises from skyrocketing verdicts, and 
part from the tendency of judges and juries to expand the 
coverage of insurance policies beyond that contemplated by the 
insurer when the policies were written.  Seeing no let-up in 
either trend, we continue to believe that the industry’s revenues 
must grow at close to 10% annually for it to just hold its own 
in terms of profitability, even though general inflation may be 
running only 2% - 4%.

     In 1986, as noted, the industry’s premium volume soared even 
faster than loss costs.  Consequently, the underwriting loss of 
the industry fell dramatically.  In last year’s report we 
predicted this sharp improvement but also predicted that 
prosperity would be fleeting.  Alas, this second prediction is 
already proving accurate.  The rate of gain in the industry’s 
premium volume has slowed significantly (from an estimated 27.1% 
in 1986’s first quarter, to 23.5% in the second, to 21.8% in the 
third, to 18.7% in the fourth), and we expect further slowing in 
1987.  Indeed, the rate of gain may well fall below my 10% 
"equilibrium" figure by the third quarter.

     Nevertheless, underwriting results in 1987, assuming they 
are not dragged down by a major natural catastrophe, will again 
improve materially because price increases are recognized in 
revenues on a lagged basis.  In effect, the good news in earnings 
follows the good news in prices by six to twelve months.  But the 
improving trend in earnings will probably end by late 1988 or 
early 1989.  Thereafter the industry is likely to head south in a 
hurry.

     Pricing behavior in the insurance industry continues to be 
exactly what can be expected in a commodity-type business.  Only 
under shortage conditions are high profits achieved, and such 
conditions don’t last long.  When the profit sun begins to shine, 
long-established insurers shower investors with new shares in 
order to build capital.  In addition, newly-formed insurers rush 
to sell shares at the advantageous prices available in the new-
issue market (prices advantageous, that is, to the insiders 
promoting the company but rarely to the new shareholders).  These 
moves guarantee future trouble: capacity soars, competitive 
juices flow, and prices fade.

     It’s interesting to observe insurance leaders beseech their 
colleagues to behave in a more "statesmanlike" manner when 
pricing policies.  "Why," they ask, "can’t we learn from history, 
even out the peaks and valleys, and consistently price to make 
reasonable profits?" What they wish, of course, is pricing that 
resembles, say, that of The Wall Street journal, whose prices are 
ample to start with and rise consistently each year.

     Such calls for improved behavior have all of the efficacy of 
those made by a Nebraska corn grower asking his fellow growers, 
worldwide, to market their corn with more statesmanship.  What’s 
needed is not more statesmen, but less corn.  By raising large 
amounts of capital in the last two years, the insurance industry 
has, to continue our metaphor, vastly expanded its plantings of 
corn.  The resulting increase in "crop" - i.e., the proliferation 
of insurance capacity - will have the same effect on prices and 
profits that surplus crops have had since time immemorial.

     Our own insurance operation did well in 1986 and is also 
likely to do well in 1987.  We have benefited significantly from 
industry conditions.  But much of our prosperity arises from the 
efforts and ability of Mike Goldberg, manager of all insurance 
operations.

     Our combined ratio (on a statutory basis and excluding 
structured settlements and financial reinsurance) fell from 111 
in 1985 to 103 in 1986.  In addition, our premium growth has been 
exceptional: although final figures aren’t available, I believe 
that over the past two years we were the fastest growing company 
among the country’s top 100 insurers.  Some of our growth, it is 
true, came from our large quota-share contract with Fireman’s 
Fund, described in last year’s report and updated in Charlie’s 
letter on page 54.  But even if the premiums from that contract 
are excluded from the calculation, we probably still ranked first 
in growth.

     Interestingly, we were the slowest-growing large insurer in 
the years immediately preceding 1985.  In fact, we shrank - and 
we will do so again from time to time in the future.  Our large 
swings in volume do not mean that we come and go from the 
insurance marketplace.  Indeed, we are its most steadfast 
participant, always standing ready, at prices we believe 
adequate, to write a wide variety of high-limit coverages.  The 
swings in our volume arise instead from the here-today, gone-
tomorrow behavior of other insurers.  When most insurers are 
"gone," because their capital is inadequate or they have been 
frightened by losses, insureds rush to us and find us ready to 
do business.  But when hordes of insurers are "here," and are 
slashing prices far below expectable costs, many customers 
naturally leave us in order to take advantage of the bargains 
temporarily being offered by our competition.

     Our firmness on prices works no hardship on the consumer: he 
is being bombarded by attractively priced insurance offers at 
those times when we are doing little business.  And it works no 
hardship on our employees: we don’t engage in layoffs when we 
experience a cyclical slowdown at one of our generally-profitable 
insurance operations.  This no-layoff practice is in our self-
interest.  Employees who fear that large layoffs will accompany 
sizable reductions in premium volume will understandably produce 
scads of business through thick and thin (mostly thin).

     The trends in National Indemnity’s traditional business - 
the writing of commercial auto and general liability policies 
through general agents - suggest how gun-shy other insurers 
became for a while and how brave they are now getting.  In the 
last quarter of 1984, NICO’s monthly volume averaged $5 million, 
about what it had been running for several years.  By the first 
quarter of 1986, monthly volume had climbed to about $35 million.  
In recent months, a sharp decline has set in.  Monthly volume is 
currently about $20 million and will continue to fall as new 
competitors surface and prices are cut.  Ironically, the managers 
of certain major new competitors are the very same managers that 
just a few years ago bankrupted insurers that were our old 
competitors.  Through state-mandated guaranty funds, we must pay 
some of the losses these managers left unpaid, and now we find 
them writing the same sort of business under a new name.  C’est 
la guerre.

     The business we call "large risks" expanded significantly 
during 1986, and will be important to us in the future.  In this 
operation, we regularly write policies with annual premiums of $1 
- $3 million, or even higher.  This business will necessarily be 
highly volatile - both in volume and profitability - but our 
premier capital position and willingness to write large net lines 
make us a very strong force in the market when prices are right.  
On the other hand, our structured settlement business has become 
near-dormant because present prices make no sense to us.

     The 1986 loss reserve development of our insurance group is 
chronicled on page 46.  The figures show the amount of error in 
our yearend 1985 liabilities that a year of settlements and 
further evaluation has revealed.  As you can see, what I told you 
last year about our loss liabilities was far from true - and that 
makes three years in a row of error.  If the physiological rules 
that applied to Pinocchio were to apply to me, my nose would now 
draw crowds.

     When insurance executives belatedly establish proper 
reserves, they often speak of "reserve strengthening," a term 
that has a rather noble ring to it.  They almost make it sound as 
if they are adding extra layers of strength to an already-solid 
balance sheet.  That’s not the case: instead the term is a 
euphemism for what should more properly be called "correction of 
previous untruths" (albeit non-intentional ones).

     We made a special effort at the end of 1986 to reserve 
accurately.  However, we tried just as hard at the end of 1985.  
Only time will tell whether we have finally succeeded in 
correctly estimating our insurance liabilities.

     Despite the difficulties we have had in reserving and the 
commodity economics of the industry, we expect our insurance 
business to both grow and make significant amounts of money - but 
progress will be distinctly irregular and there will be major 
unpleasant surprises from time to time.  It’s a treacherous 
business and a wary attitude is essential.  We must heed Woody 
Allen: "While the lamb may lie down with the lion, the lamb 
shouldn’t count on getting a whole lot of sleep."

     In our insurance operations we have an advantage in 
attitude, we have an advantage in capital, and we are developing 
an advantage in personnel.  Additionally, I like to think we have 
some long-term edge in investing the float developed from 
policyholder funds.  The nature of the business suggests that we 
will need all of these advantages in order to prosper.

                          *  *  *

     GEICO Corporation, 41% owned by Berkshire, had an 
outstanding year in 1986.  Industrywide, underwriting experience 
in personal lines did not improve nearly as much as it did in 
commercial lines.  But GEICO, writing personal lines almost 
exclusively, improved its combined ratio to 96.9 and recorded a 
16% gain in premium volume.  GEICO also continued to repurchase 
its own shares and ended the year with 5.5% fewer shares 
outstanding than it had at the start of the year.  Our share of 
GEICO’s premium volume is over $500 million, close to double that 
of only three years ago.  GEICO’s book of business is one of the 
best in the world of insurance, far better indeed than 
Berkshire’s own book.

     The most important ingredient in GEICO’s success is rock-
bottom operating costs, which set the company apart from 
literally hundreds of competitors that offer auto insurance.  The 
total of GEICO’s underwriting expense and loss adjustment expense 
in 1986 was only 23.5% of premiums.  Many major companies show 
percentages 15 points higher than that.  Even such huge direct 
writers as Allstate and State Farm incur appreciably higher costs 
than does GEICO.

     The difference between GEICO’s costs and those of its 
competitors is a kind of moat that protects a valuable and much-
sought-after business castle.  No one understands this moat-
around-the-castle concept better than Bill Snyder, Chairman of 
GEICO.  He continually widens the moat by driving down costs 
still more, thereby defending and strengthening the economic 
franchise.  Between 1985 and 1986, GEICO’s total expense ratio 
dropped from 24.1% to the 23.5% mentioned earlier and, under 
Bill’s leadership, the ratio is almost certain to drop further.  
If it does - and if GEICO maintains its service and underwriting 
standards - the company’s future will be brilliant indeed.

     The second stage of the GEICO rocket is fueled by Lou 
Simpson, Vice Chairman, who has run the company’s investments 
since late 1979.  Indeed, it’s a little embarrassing for me, the 
fellow responsible for investments at Berkshire, to chronicle 
Lou’s performance at GEICO.  Only my ownership of a controlling 
block of Berkshire stock makes me secure enough to give you the 
following figures, comparing the overall return of the equity 
portfolio at GEICO to that of the Standard & Poor’s 500:

     Year                   GEICO’s Equities      S&P 500
     ----                   ----------------      -------
     1980 ..................       23.7%           32.3%
     1981 ..................        5.4            (5.0)
     1982 ..................       45.8            21.4
     1983 ..................       36.0            22.4
     1984 ..................       21.8             6.2
     1985 ..................       45.8            31.6
     1986 ..................       38.7            18.6

     These are not only terrific figures but, fully as important, 
they have been achieved in the right way.  Lou has consistently 
invested in undervalued common stocks that, individually, were 
unlikely to present him with a permanent loss and that, 
collectively, were close to risk-free.

     In sum, GEICO is an exceptional business run by exceptional 
managers.  We are fortunate to be associated with them.

Marketable Securities

     During 1986, our insurance companies purchased about $700 
million of tax-exempt bonds, most having a maturity of 8 to 12 
years.  You might think that this commitment indicates a 
considerable enthusiasm for such bonds.  Unfortunately, that’s 
not so: at best, the bonds are mediocre investments.  They simply 
seemed the least objectionable alternative at the time we bought 
them, and still seem so. (Currently liking neither stocks nor 
bonds, I find myself the polar opposite of Mae West as she 
declared: "I like only two kinds of men - foreign and domestic.")

     We must, of necessity, hold marketable securities in our 
insurance companies and, as money comes in, we have only five 
directions to go: (1) long-term common stock investments; (2) 
long-term fixed-income securities; (3) medium-term fixed-income 
securities; (4) short-term cash equivalents; and (5) short-term 
arbitrage commitments.

     Common stocks, of course, are the most fun.  When conditions 
are right that is, when companies with good economics and good 
management sell well below intrinsic business value - stocks 
sometimes provide grand-slam home runs.  But we currently find no 
equities that come close to meeting our tests.  This statement in 
no way translates into a stock market prediction: we have no idea 
- and never have had - whether the market is going to go up, 
down, or sideways in the near- or intermediate term future.

     What we do know, however, is that occasional outbreaks of 
those two super-contagious diseases, fear and greed, will forever 
occur in the investment community.  The timing of these epidemics 
will be unpredictable.  And the market aberrations produced by 
them will be equally unpredictable, both as to duration and 
degree.  Therefore, we never try to anticipate the arrival or 
departure of either disease.  Our goal is more modest: we simply 
attempt to be fearful when others are greedy and to be greedy 
only when others are fearful.

     As this is written, little fear is visible in Wall Street.  
Instead, euphoria prevails - and why not?  What could be more 
exhilarating than to participate in a bull market in which the 
rewards to owners of businesses become gloriously uncoupled from 
the plodding performances of the businesses themselves.  
Unfortunately, however, stocks can’t outperform businesses 
indefinitely.

     Indeed, because of the heavy transaction and investment 
management costs they bear, stockholders as a whole and over the 
long term must inevitably underperform the companies they own.  
If American business, in aggregate, earns about 12% on equity 
annually, investors must end up earning significantly less.  Bull 
markets can obscure mathematical laws, but they cannot repeal 
them.

     The second category of investments open to our insurance 
companies is long-term bonds.  These are unlikely to be of 
interest to us except in very special situations, such as the 
Washington Public Power Supply System #1, #2 and #3 issues, 
discussed in our 1984 report. (At yearend, we owned WPPSS issues 
having an amortized cost of $218 million and a market value of 
$310 million, paying us $31.7 million in annual tax-exempt 
income.) Our aversion to long-term bonds relates to our fear that 
we will see much higher rates of inflation within the next 
decade.  Over time, the behavior of our currency will be 
determined by the behavior of our legislators.  This relationship 
poses a continuing threat to currency stability - and a 
corresponding threat to the owners of long-term bonds.

     We continue to periodically employ money in the arbitrage 
field.  However, unlike most arbitrageurs, who purchase dozens of 
securities each year, we purchase only a few.  We restrict 
ourselves to large deals that have been announced publicly and do 
not bet on the come.  Therefore, our potential profits are apt to 
be small; but, with luck, our disappointments will also be few.

     Our yearend portfolio shown below includes one arbitrage 
commitment, Lear-Siegler.  Our balance sheet also includes a 
receivable for $145 million, representing the money owed us (and 
paid a few days later) by Unilever, then in the process of 
purchasing Chesebrough-Ponds, another of our arbitrage holdings.  
Arbitrage is an alternative to Treasury Bills as a short-term 
parking place for money - a choice that combines potentially 
higher returns with higher risks.  To date, our returns from the 
funds committed to arbitrage have been many times higher than 
they would have been had we left those funds in Treasury Bills.  
Nonetheless, one bad experience could change the scorecard 
markedly.

     We also, though it takes some straining, currently view 
medium-term tax-exempt bonds as an alternative to short-term 
Treasury holdings.  Buying these bonds, we run a risk of 
significant loss if, as seems probable, we sell many of them well 
before maturity.  However, we believe this risk is more than 
counter-balanced first, by the much higher after-tax returns 
currently realizable from these securities as compared to 
Treasury Bills and second, by the possibility that sales will 
produce an overall profit rather than a loss.  Our expectation of 
a higher total return, after allowing for the possibility of loss 
and after taking into account all tax effects, is a relatively 
close call and could well be wrong.  Even if we sell our bonds at 
a fairly large loss, however, we may end up reaping a higher 
after-tax return than we would have realized by repeatedly 
rolling over Treasury Bills.

     In any event, you should know that our expectations for both 
the stocks and bonds we now hold are exceptionally modest, given 
current market levels.  Probably the best thing that could happen 
to us is a market in which we would choose to sell many of our 
bond holdings at a significant loss in order to re-allocate funds 
to the far-better equity values then very likely to exist.  The 
bond losses I am talking about would occur if high interest rates 
came along; the same rates would probably depress common stocks 
considerably more than medium-term bonds.

     We show below our 1986 yearend net holdings in marketable 
equities. All positions with a market value of over $25 million 
are listed, and the interests attributable to minority 
shareholdings of Wesco Financial Corp. and Nebraska Furniture 
Mart are excluded.

No. of Shares                                      Cost       Market
-------------                                   ----------  ----------
                                                    (000s omitted)
  2,990,000    Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. .......  $515,775   $  801,694
  6,850,000    GEICO Corporation ..............    45,713      674,725
  2,379,200    Handy & Harman .................    27,318       46,989
    489,300    Lear Siegler, Inc. .............    44,064       44,587
  1,727,765    The Washington Post Company ....     9,731      269,531
                                                ----------  ----------
                                                  642,601    1,837,526
               All Other Common Stockholdings      12,763       36,507
                                                ----------  ----------
               Total Common Stocks ............  $655,364   $1,874,033

     We should note that we expect to keep permanently our three 
primary holdings, Capital Cities/ABC, Inc., GEICO Corporation, 
and The Washington Post.  Even if these securities were to appear 
significantly overpriced, we would not anticipate selling them, 
just as we would not sell See’s or Buffalo Evening News if 
someone were to offer us a price far above what we believe those 
businesses are worth.

     This attitude may seem old-fashioned in a corporate world in 
which activity has become the order of the day.  The modern 
manager refers to his "portfolio" of businesses - meaning that 
all of them are candidates for "restructuring" whenever such a 
move is dictated by Wall Street preferences, operating conditions 
or a new corporate "concept." (Restructuring is defined narrowly, 
however: it extends only to dumping offending businesses, not to 
dumping the officers and directors who bought the businesses in 
the first place.  "Hate the sin but love the sinner" is a 
theology as popular with the Fortune 500 as it is with the 
Salvation Army.)

     Investment managers are even more hyperkinetic: their 
behavior during trading hours makes whirling dervishes appear 
sedated by comparison.  Indeed, the term "institutional investor" 
is becoming one of those self-contradictions called an oxymoron, 
comparable to "jumbo shrimp," "lady mudwrestler" and "inexpensive 
lawyer."

     Despite the enthusiasm for activity that has swept business 
and financial America, we will stick with our ‘til-death-do-us-
part policy. It’s the only one with which Charlie and I are 
comfortable, it produces decent results, and it lets our managers 
and those of our investees run their businesses free of 
distractions.

NHP, Inc.

     Last year we paid $23.7 million for about 50% of NHP, Inc., 
a developer, syndicator, owner and manager of multi-family rental 
housing.  Should all executive stock options that have been 
authorized be granted and exercised, our equity interest will 
decline to slightly over 45%.

     NHP, Inc. has a most unusual genealogy.  In 1967, President 
Johnson appointed a commission of business and civic leaders, led 
by Edgar Kaiser, to study ways to increase the supply of 
multifamily housing for low- and moderate-income tenants.  
Certain members of the commission subsequently formed and 
promoted two business entities to foster this goal.  Both are now 
owned by NHP, Inc. and one operates under unusual ground rules: 
three of its directors must be appointed by the President, with 
the advice and consent of the Senate, and it is also required by 
law to submit an annual report to the President.

     Over 260 major corporations, motivated more by the idea of 
public service than profit, invested $42 million in the two 
original entities, which promptly began, through partnerships, to 
develop government-subsidized rental property.  The typical 
partnership owned a single property and was largely financed by a 
non-recourse mortgage.  Most of the equity money for each 
partnership was supplied by a group of limited partners who were 
primarily attracted by the large tax deductions that went with 
the investment.  NHP acted as general partner and also purchased 
a small portion of each partnership’s equity.

     The Government’s housing policy has, of course, shifted and 
NHP has necessarily broadened its activities to include non-
subsidized apartments commanding market-rate rents.  In addition, 
a subsidiary of NHP builds single-family homes in the Washington, 
D.C. area, realizing revenues of about $50 million annually.

     NHP now oversees about 500 partnership properties that are 
located in 40 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, 
and that include about 80,000 housing units.  The cost of these 
properties was more than $2.5 billion and they have been well 
maintained.  NHP directly manages about 55,000 of the housing 
units and supervises the management of the rest.  The company’s 
revenues from management are about $16 million annually, and 
growing.

     In addition to the equity interests it purchased upon the 
formation of each partnership, NHP owns varying residual 
interests that come into play when properties are disposed of and 
distributions are made to the limited partners.  The residuals on 
many of NHP’s "deep subsidy" properties are unlikely to be of 
much value.  But residuals on certain other properties could 
prove quite valuable, particularly if inflation should heat up.

     The tax-oriented syndication of properties to individuals 
has been halted by the Tax Reform Act of 1986.  In the main, NHP 
is currently trying to develop equity positions or significant 
residual interests in non-subsidized rental properties of quality 
and size (typically 200 to 500 units).  In projects of this kind, 
NHP usually works with one or more large institutional investors 
or lenders.  NHP will continue to seek ways to develop low- and 
moderate-income apartment housing, but will not likely meet 
success unless government policy changes.

     Besides ourselves, the large shareholders in NHP are 
Weyerhauser (whose interest is about 25%) and a management group 
led by Rod Heller, chief executive of NHP.  About 60 major 
corporations also continue to hold small interests, none larger 
than 2%.

Taxation

     The Tax Reform Act of 1986 affects our various businesses in 
important and divergent ways.  Although we find much to praise in 
the Act, the net financial effect for Berkshire is negative: our 
rate of increase in business value is likely to be at least 
moderately slower under the new law than under the old.  The net 
effect for our shareholders is even more negative: every dollar 
of increase in per-share business value, assuming the increase is 
accompanied by an equivalent dollar gain in the market value of 
Berkshire stock, will produce 72 cents of after-tax gain for our 
shareholders rather than the 80 cents produced under the old law.  
This result, of course, reflects the rise in the maximum tax rate 
on personal capital gains from 20% to 28%.

     Here are the main tax changes that affect Berkshire:

   o The tax rate on corporate ordinary income is scheduled to 
decrease from 46% in 1986 to 34% in 1988.  This change obviously 
affects us positively - and it also has a significant positive 
effect on two of our three major investees, Capital Cities/ABC 
and The Washington Post Company.

     I say this knowing that over the years there has been a lot 
of fuzzy and often partisan commentary about who really pays 
corporate taxes - businesses or their customers.  The argument, 
of course, has usually turned around tax increases, not 
decreases.  Those people resisting increases in corporate rates 
frequently argue that corporations in reality pay none of the 
taxes levied on them but, instead, act as a sort of economic 
pipeline, passing all taxes through to consumers.  According to 
these advocates, any corporate-tax increase will simply lead to 
higher prices that, for the corporation, offset the increase.  
Having taken this position, proponents of the "pipeline" theory 
must also conclude that a tax decrease for corporations will not 
help profits but will instead flow through, leading to 
correspondingly lower prices for consumers.

     Conversely, others argue that corporations not only pay the 
taxes levied upon them, but absorb them also.  Consumers, this 
school says, will be unaffected by changes in corporate rates.

     What really happens?  When the corporate rate is cut, do 
Berkshire, The Washington Post, Cap Cities, etc., themselves soak 
up the benefits, or do these companies pass the benefits along to 
their customers in the form of lower prices?  This is an 
important question for investors and managers, as well as for 
policymakers.

     Our conclusion is that in some cases the benefits of lower 
corporate taxes fall exclusively, or almost exclusively, upon the 
corporation and its shareholders, and that in other cases the 
benefits are entirely, or almost entirely, passed through to the 
customer.  What determines the outcome is the strength of the 
corporation’s business franchise and whether the profitability of 
that franchise is regulated.

     For example, when the franchise is strong and after-tax 
profits are regulated in a relatively precise manner, as is the 
case with electric utilities, changes in corporate tax rates are 
largely reflected in prices, not in profits.  When taxes are cut, 
prices will usually be reduced in short order.  When taxes are 
increased, prices will rise, though often not as promptly.

     A similar result occurs in a second arena - in the price-
competitive industry, whose companies typically operate with very 
weak business franchises.  In such industries, the free market 
"regulates" after-tax profits in a delayed and irregular, but 
generally effective, manner.  The marketplace, in effect, 
performs much the same function in dealing with the price-
competitive industry as the Public Utilities Commission does in 
dealing with electric utilities.  In these industries, therefore, 
tax changes eventually affect prices more than profits.

     In the case of unregulated businesses blessed with strong 
franchises, however, it’s a different story:  the corporation 
and its shareholders are then the major beneficiaries of tax 
cuts.  These companies benefit from a tax cut much as the 
electric company would if it lacked a regulator to force down 
prices.

     Many of our businesses, both those we own in whole and in 
part, possess such franchises.  Consequently, reductions in their 
taxes largely end up in our pockets rather than the pockets of 
our customers.  While this may be impolitic to state, it is 
impossible to deny.  If you are tempted to believe otherwise, 
think for a moment of the most able brain surgeon or lawyer in 
your area.  Do you really expect the fees of this expert (the 
local "franchise-holder" in his or her specialty) to be reduced 
now that the top personal tax rate is being cut from 50% to 28%?

     Your joy at our conclusion that lower rates benefit a number 
of our operating businesses and investees should be severely 
tempered, however, by another of our convictions: scheduled 1988 
tax rates, both individual and corporate, seem totally 
unrealistic to us.  These rates will very likely bestow a fiscal 
problem on Washington that will prove incompatible with price 
stability.  We believe, therefore, that ultimately - within, say, 
five years - either higher tax rates or higher inflation rates 
are almost certain to materialize.  And it would not surprise us 
to see both.

   o Corporate capital gains tax rates have been increased from 
28% to 34%, effective in 1987.  This change will have an 
important adverse effect on Berkshire because we expect much of 
our gain in business value in the future, as in the past, to 
arise from capital gains.  For example, our three major 
investment holdings - Cap Cities, GEICO, and Washington Post - at 
yearend had a market value of over $1.7 billion, close to 75% of 
the total net worth of Berkshire, and yet they deliver us only 
about $9 million in annual income.  Instead, all three retain a 
very high percentage of their earnings, which we expect to 
eventually deliver us capital gains.

     The new law increases the rate for all gains realized in the 
future, including the unrealized gains that existed before the 
law was enacted.  At yearend, we had $1.2 billion of such 
unrealized gains in our equity investments.  The effect of the new 
law on our balance sheet will be delayed because a GAAP rule 
stipulates that the deferred tax liability applicable to 
unrealized gains should be stated at last year’s 28% tax rate 
rather than the current 34% rate.  This rule is expected to change 
soon.  The moment it does, about $73 million will disappear from 
our GAAP net worth and be added to the deferred tax account.

   o Dividend and interest income received by our insurance 
companies will be taxed far more heavily under the new law.  
First, all corporations will be taxed on 20% of the dividends 
they receive from other domestic corporations, up from 15% under 
the old law.  Second, there is a change concerning the residual 
80% that applies only to property/casualty companies: 15% of that 
residual will be taxed if the stocks paying the dividends were 
purchased after August 7, 1986.  A third change, again applying 
only to property/casualty companies, concerns tax-exempt bonds: 
interest on bonds purchased by insurers after August 7, 1986 will 
only be 85% tax-exempt.

     The last two changes are very important.  They mean that our 
income from the investments we make in future years will be 
significantly lower than would have been the case under the old 
law.  My best guess is that these changes alone will eventually 
reduce the earning power of our insurance operation by at least 
10% from what we could previously have expected.

   o The new tax law also materially changes the timing of tax 
payments by property/casualty insurance companies.  One new rule 
requires us to discount our loss reserves in our tax returns, a 
change that will decrease deductions and increase taxable income.  
Another rule, to be phased in over six years, requires us to 
include 20% of our unearned premium reserve in taxable income.

     Neither rule changes the amount of the annual tax accrual in 
our reports to you, but each materially accelerates the schedule 
of payments.  That is, taxes formerly deferred will now be front-
ended, a change that will significantly cut the profitability of 
our business.  An analogy will suggest the toll: if, upon turning 
21, you were required to immediately pay tax on all income you 
were due to receive throughout your life, both your lifetime 
wealth and your estate would be a small fraction of what they 
would be if all taxes on your income were payable only when you 
died.

     Attentive readers may spot an inconsistency in what we say.  
Earlier, discussing companies in price-competitive industries, we 
suggested that tax increases or reductions affect these companies 
relatively little, but instead are largely passed along to their 
customers.  But now we are saying that tax increases will affect 
profits of Berkshire’s property/casualty companies even though 
they operate in an intensely price-competitive industry.

     The reason this industry is likely to be an exception to our 
general rule is that not all major insurers will be working with 
identical tax equations.  Important differences will exist for 
several reasons: a new alternative minimum tax will materially 
affect some companies but not others; certain major insurers have 
huge loss carry-forwards that will largely shield their income 
from significant taxes for at least a few years; and the results 
of some large insurers will be folded into the consolidated 
returns of companies with non-insurance businesses.  These 
disparate conditions will produce widely varying marginal tax 
rates in the property/casualty industry.  That will not be the 
case, however, in most other price-competitive industries, such 
as aluminum, autos and department stores, in which the major 
players will generally contend with similar tax equations.

     The absence of a common tax calculus for property/casualty 
companies means that the increased taxes falling on the industry 
will probably not be passed along to customers to the degree that 
they would in a typical price-competitive industry.  Insurers, in 
other words, will themselves bear much of the new tax burdens.

   o A partial offset to these burdens is a "fresh start" 
adjustment that occurred on January 1, 1987 when our December 31, 
1986 loss reserve figures were converted for tax purposes to the 
newly-required discounted basis. (In our reports to you, however, 
reserves will remain on exactly the same basis as in the past - 
undiscounted except in special cases such as structured 
settlements.) The net effect of the "fresh start" is to give us a 
double deduction: we will get a tax deduction in 1987 and future 
years for a portion of our-incurred-but-unpaid insurance losses 
that have already been fully deducted as costs in 1986 and 
earlier years.

     The increase in net worth that is produced by this change is 
not yet reflected in our financial statements.  Rather, under 
present GAAP rules (which may be changed), the benefit will flow 
into the earnings statement and, consequently, into net worth 
over the next few years by way of reduced tax charges.  We expect 
the total benefit from the fresh-start adjustment to be in the 
$30 - $40 million range.  It should be noted, however, that this 
is a one-time benefit, whereas the negative impact of the other 
insurance-related tax changes is not only ongoing but, in 
important respects, will become more severe as time passes.

   o The General Utilities Doctrine was repealed by the new tax 
law. This means that in 1987 and thereafter there will be a 
double tax on corporate liquidations, one at the corporate level 
and another at the shareholder level.  In the past, the tax at 
the corporate level could be avoided, If Berkshire, for example, 
were to be liquidated - which it most certainly won’t be - 
shareholders would, under the new law, receive far less from the 
sales of our properties than they would have if the properties 
had been sold in the past, assuming identical prices in each 
sale.  Though this outcome is theoretical in our case, the change 
in the law will very materially affect many companies.  
Therefore, it also affects our evaluations of prospective 
investments.  Take, for example, producing oil and gas 
businesses, selected media companies, real estate companies, etc. 
that might wish to sell out.  The values that their shareholders 
can realize are likely to be significantly reduced simply because 
the General Utilities Doctrine has been repealed - though the 
companies’ operating economics will not have changed adversely at 
all.  My impression is that this important change in the law has 
not yet been fully comprehended by either investors or managers.

     This section of our report has been longer and more 
complicated than I would have liked.  But the changes in the law 
are many and important, particularly for property/casualty 
insurers.  As I have noted, the new law will hurt Berkshire’s 
results, but the negative impact is impossible to quantify with 
any precision.

Miscellaneous

     We bought a corporate jet last year.  What you have heard about such 
planes is true: they are very expensive and a luxury in 
situations like ours where little travel to out-of-the-way places 
is required.  And planes not only cost a lot to operate, they cost 
a lot just to look at.  Pre-tax, cost of capital plus depreciation 
on a new $15 million plane probably runs $3 million annually.  On 
our own plane, bought for $850,000 used, such costs run close to 
$200,000 annually.

     Cognizant of such figures, your Chairman, unfortunately, has 
in the past made a number of rather intemperate remarks about 
corporate jets.  Accordingly, prior to our purchase, I was forced 
into my Galileo mode.  I promptly experienced the necessary 
"counter-revelation" and travel is now considerably easier - and 
considerably costlier - than in the past.  Whether Berkshire will 
get its money’s worth from the plane is an open question, but I 
will work at achieving some business triumph that I can (no 
matter how dubiously) attribute to it.  I’m afraid Ben Franklin 
had my number.  Said he: "So convenient a thing it is to be a 
reasonable creature, since it enables one to find or make a 
reason for everything one has a mind to do."

     About 97% of all eligible shares participated in Berkshire’s 
1986 shareholder-designated contributions program.  Contributions 
made through the program were $4 million, and 1,934 charities 
were recipients.

     We urge new shareholders to read the description of our 
shareholder-designated contributions program that appears on 
pages 58 and 59.  If you wish to participate in future programs, 
we strongly urge that you immediately make sure your shares are 
registered in the name of the actual owner, not in "street" name 
or nominee name.  Shares not so registered on September 30, 1987 
will be ineligible for the 1987 program.

                           *  *  *

     Last year almost 450 people attended our shareholders’ 
meeting, up from about 250 the year before (and from about a 
dozen ten years ago).  I hope you can join us on May 19th in 
Omaha.  Charlie and I like to answer owner-related questions 
and I can promise you that our shareholders will pose many good 
ones.  Finishing up the questions may take quite a while - we 
had about 65 last year so you should feel free to leave once 
your own have been answered.

     Last year, after the meeting, one shareholder from New 
Jersey and another from New York went to the Furniture Mart, 
where each purchased a $5,000 Oriental rug from Mrs. B. (To be 
precise, they purchased rugs that might cost $10,000 elsewhere 
for which they were charged about $5,000.) Mrs. B was pleased - 
but not satisfied - and she will be looking for you at the store 
after this year’s meeting.  Unless our shareholders top last 
year’s record, I’ll be in trouble.  So do me (and yourself) a 
favor, and go see her.



                                         Warren E. Buffett
February 27, 1987                        Chairman of the Board
Appendix
Purchase-Price Accounting Adjustments and the "Cash Flow" Fallacy
 
	First a short quiz: below are abbreviated 1986 statements of earnings for two companies. Which business is the more valuable?





Company O


Company N




(000s Omitted)



Revenues……………………….




$677,240




$677,240














Costs of Goods Sold:











Historical costs, excluding depreciation…………………….


$341,170




$341,170





Special non-cash inventory costs…………………………….






4,979

(1)




Depreciation of plant and equipment ……………………...


8,301




13,355

(2)




 




349,471




359,504







$327,769




$317,736



Gross Profit …………………….











Selling & Admin. Expense........


$260,286




$260,286





Amortization of Goodwill .........


   ______




____595

(3)








260,286




260,881



Operating Profit .....................…




$ 67,483




$ 56,855



Other Income, Net .................…




4,135




4,135



Pre-Tax Income ......................…




$ 71,618




$ 60,990



Applicable Income Tax:











Historical deferred and current tax ……………………………….


$ 31,387




$ 31,387





Non-Cash Inter-period Allocation Adjustment .............


   ______




_____998

(4)








31,387




32,385



Net Income ............                          $40,231              $28,605
                                              =======              =======
(Numbers (1) through (4) designate items discussed later in this section.)
	As you've probably guessed, Companies O and N are the same business - Scott Fetzer. In the "O" (for "old") column we have shown what the company's 1986 GAAP earnings would have been if we had not purchased it; in the "N" (for "new") column we have shown Scott Fetzer's GAAP earnings as actually reported by Berkshire.
	It should be emphasized that the two columns depict identical economics - i.e., the same sales, wages, taxes, etc. And both "companies" generate the same amount of cash for owners. Only the accounting is different.
	So, fellow philosophers, which column presents truth? Upon which set of numbers should managers and investors focus?
	Before we tackle those questions, let's look at what produces the disparity between O and N. We will simplify our discussion in some respects, but the simplification should not produce any inaccuracies in analysis or conclusions.
	The contrast between O and N comes about because we paid an amount for Scott Fetzer that was different from its stated net worth. Under GAAP, such differences - such premiums or discounts - must be accounted for by "purchase-price adjustments." In Scott Fetzer's case, we paid $315 million for net assets that were carried on its books at $172.4 million. So we paid a premium of $142.6 million.
	The first step in accounting for any premium paid is to adjust the carrying value of current assets to current values. In practice, this requirement usually does not affect receivables, which are routinely carried at current value, but often affects inventories. Because of a $22.9 million LIFO reserve and other accounting intricacies, Scott Fetzer's inventory account was carried at a $37.3 million discount from current value. So, making our first accounting move, we used $37.3 million of our $142.6 million premium to increase the carrying value of the inventory.
	Assuming any premium is left after current assets are adjusted, the next step is to adjust fixed assets to current value. In our case, this adjustment also required a few accounting acrobatics relating to deferred taxes. Since this has been billed as a simplified discussion, I will skip the details and give you the bottom line: $68.0 million was added to fixed assets and $13.0 million was eliminated from deferred tax liabilities. After making this $81.0 million adjustment, we were left with $24.3 million of premium to allocate.
	Had our situation called for them two steps would next have been required: the adjustment of intangible assets other than Goodwill to current fair values, and the restatement of liabilities to current fair values, a requirement that typically affects only long-term debt and unfunded pension liabilities. In Scott Fetzer's case, however, neither of these steps was necessary.
	The final accounting adjustment we needed to make, after recording fair market values for all assets and liabilities, was the assignment of the residual premium to Goodwill (technically known as "excess of cost over the fair value of net assets acquired"). This residual amounted to $24.3 million. Thus, the balance sheet of Scott Fetzer immediately before the acquisition, which is summarized below in column O, was transformed by the purchase into the balance sheet shown in column N. In real terms, both balance sheets depict the same assets and liabilities - but, as you can see, certain figures differ significantly.




Company O

Company N



(000s Omitted)


Assets




Cash and Cash Equivalents …………………………...

$ 3,593

$ 3,593


Receivables, net ………………………………………..

90,919

90,919


Inventories ……………………………………………

77,489

114,764


Other …………………………………………………….

5,954

5,954


Total Current Assets …………………………………..

177,955

215,230


Property, Plant, and Equipment, net ………………….

80,967

148,960


Investments in and Advances to Unconsolidated Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures ………………………

93,589

93,589


Other Assets, including Goodwill …………………….

9,836

34,210



$362,347

$491,989


Liabilities




Notes Payable and Current Portion of Long-term Debt ………………………………………………………

$ 4,650

$ 4,650


Accounts Payable ……………………………………...

39,003

39,003


Accrued Liabilities ……………………………………..

84,939

84,939


Total Current Liabilities ………………………………..

128,592

128,592


Long-term Debt and Capitalized Leases …………….

34,669

34,669


Deferred Income Taxes ………………………………..

17,052

4,075


Other Deferred Credits …………………………………

9,657

9,657


Total Liabilities …………………………………………

189,970

176,993


Shareholders' Equity …………………………………...

172,377

314,996



                                                         $362,347       $491,989
                                                         ========       ========
 
	The higher balance sheet figures shown in column N produce the lower income figures shown in column N of the earnings statement presented earlier. This is the result of the asset write-ups and of the fact that some of the written-up assets must be depreciated or amortized. The higher the asset figure, the higher the annual depreciation or amortization charge to earnings must be. The charges that flowed to the earnings statement because of the balance sheet write-ups were numbered in the statement of earnings shown earlier:

$4,979,000 for non-cash inventory costs resulting, primarily, from reductions that Scott Fetzer made in its inventories during 1986; charges of this kind are apt to be small or non-existent in future years.

$5,054,000 for extra depreciation attributable to the write-up of fixed assets; a charge approximating this amount will probably be made annually for 12 more years.

$595,000 for amortization of Goodwill; this charge will be made annually for 39 more years in a slightly larger amount because our purchase was made on January 6 and, therefore, the 1986 figure applies to only 98% of the year.

$998,000 for deferred-tax acrobatics that are beyond my ability to explain briefly (or perhaps even non-briefly); a charge approximating this amount will probably be made annually for 12 more years.
	It is important to understand that none of these newly-created accounting costs, totaling $11.6 million, are deductible for income tax purposes. The "new" Scott Fetzer pays exactly the same tax as the "old" Scott Fetzer would have, even though the GAAP earnings of the two entities differ greatly. And, in respect to operating earnings, that would be true in the future also. However, in the unlikely event that Scott Fetzer sells one of its businesses, the tax consequences to the "old" and "new" company might differ widely.
	By the end of 1986 the difference between the net worth of the "old" and "new" Scott Fetzer had been reduced from $142.6 million to $131.0 million by means of the extra $11.6 million that was charged to earnings of the new entity. As the years go by, similar charges to earnings will cause most of the premium to disappear, and the two balance sheets will converge. However, the higher land values and most of the higher inventory values that were established on the new balance sheet will remain unless land is disposed of or inventory levels are further reduced.
* * *
	What does all this mean for owners? Did the shareholders of Berkshire buy a business that earned $40.2 million in 1986 or did they buy one earning $28.6 million? Were those $11.6 million of new charges a real economic cost to us? Should investors pay more for the stock of Company O than of Company N? And, if a business is worth some given multiple of earnings, was Scott Fetzer worth considerably more the day before we bought it than it was worth the following day?
	If we think through these questions, we can gain some insights about what may be called "owner earnings." These represent (a) reported earnings plus (b) depreciation, depletion, amortization, and certain other non-cash charges such as Company N's items (1) and (4) less ( c) the average annual amount of capitalized expenditures for plant and equipment, etc. that the business requires to fully maintain its long-term competitive position and its unit volume. (If the business requires additional working capital to maintain its competitive position and unit volume, the increment also should be included in ( c) . However, businesses following the LIFO inventory method usually do not require additional working capital if unit volume does not change.)
 
 
 
Our owner-earnings equation does not yield the deceptively precise figures provided by GAAP, since( c) must be a guess - and one sometimes very difficult to make. Despite this problem, we consider the owner earnings figure, not the GAAP figure, to be the relevant item for valuation purposes - both for investors in buying stocks and for managers in buying entire businesses. We agree with Keynes's observation: "I would rather be vaguely right than precisely wrong."
The approach we have outlined produces "owner earnings" for Company O and Company N that are identical, which means valuations are also identical, just as common sense would tell you should be the case. This result is reached because the sum of (a) and (b) is the same in both columns O and N, and because( c) is necessarily the same in both cases.
And what do Charlie and I, as owners and managers, believe is the correct figure for the owner earnings of Scott Fetzer? Under current circumstances, we believe ( c) is very close to the "old" company's (b) number of $8.3 million and much below the "new" company's (b) number of $19.9 million. Therefore, we believe that owner earnings are far better depicted by the reported earnings in the O column than by those in the N column. In other words, we feel owner earnings of Scott Fetzer are considerably larger than the GAAP figures that we report.
That is obviously a happy state of affairs. But calculations of this sort usually do not provide such pleasant news. Most managers probably will acknowledge that they need to spend something more than (b) on their businesses over the longer term just to hold their ground in terms of both unit volume and competitive position. When this imperative exists - that is, when ( c) exceeds (b) - GAAP earnings overstate owner earnings. Frequently this overstatement is substantial. The oil industry has in recent years provided a conspicuous example of this phenomenon. Had most major oil companies spent only (b) each year, they would have guaranteed their shrinkage in real terms.
All of this points up the absurdity of the "cash flow" numbers that are often set forth in Wall Street reports. These numbers routinely include (a) plus (b) - but do not subtract ( c) . Most sales brochures of investment bankers also feature deceptive presentations of this kind. These imply that the business being offered is the commercial counterpart of the Pyramids - forever state-of-the-art, never needing to be replaced, improved or refurbished. Indeed, if all U.S. corporations were to be offered simultaneously for sale through our leading investment bankers - and if the sales brochures describing them were to be believed - governmental projections of national plant and equipment spending would have to be slashed by 90%.
"Cash Flow", true, may serve as a shorthand of some utility in descriptions of certain real estate businesses or other enterprises that make huge initial outlays and only tiny outlays thereafter. A company whose only holding is a bridge or an extremely long-lived gas field would be an example. But "cash flow" is meaningless in such businesses as manufacturing, retailing, extractive companies, and utilities because, for them, ( c) is always significant. To be sure, businesses of this kind may in a given year be able to defer capital spending. But over a five- or ten-year period, they must make the investment - or the business decays. 
Why, then, are "cash flow" numbers so popular today? In answer, we confess our cynicism: we believe these numbers are frequently used by marketers of businesses and securities in attempts to justify the unjustifiable (and thereby to sell what should be the unsalable). When (a) - that is, GAAP earnings - looks by itself inadequate to service debt of a junk bond or justify a foolish stock price, how convenient it becomes for salesmen to focus on (a) + (b). But you shouldn't add (b) without subtracting ( c) : though dentists correctly claim that if you ignore your teeth they'll go away, the same is not true for ( c) . The company or investor believing that the debt-servicing ability or the equity valuation of an enterprise can be measured by totaling (a) and (b) while ignoring ( c) is headed for certain trouble.
* * *
	To sum up: in the case of both Scott Fetzer and our other businesses, we feel that (b) on an historical-cost basis - i.e., with both amortization of intangibles and other purchase-price adjustments excluded - is quite close in amount to ( c) . (The two items are not identical, of course. For example, at See's we annually make capitalized expenditures that exceed depreciation by $500,000 to $1 million, simply to hold our ground competitively.) Our conviction about this point is the reason we show our amortization and other purchase-price adjustment items separately in the table on page 8 and is also our reason for viewing the earnings of the individual businesses as reported there as much more closely approximating owner earnings than the GAAP figures.
	Questioning GAAP figures may seem impious to some. After all, what are we paying the accountants for if it is not to deliver us the "truth" about our business. But the accountants' job is to record, not to evaluate. The evaluation job falls to investors and managers.
	Accounting numbers, of course, are the language of business and as such are of enormous help to anyone evaluating the worth of a business and tracking its progress. Charlie and I would be lost without these numbers: they invariably are the starting point for us in evaluating our own businesses and those of others. Managers and owners need to remember, however, that accounting is but an aid to business thinking, never a substitute for it.
 






Chairman's Letter - 1987



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.



To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:
 
     Our gain in net worth during 1987 was $464 million, or 
19.5%.  Over the last 23 years (that is, since present management 
took over), our per-share book value has grown from $19.46 to 
$2,477.47, or at a rate of 23.1% compounded annually. 

     What counts, of course, is the rate of gain in per-share 
business value, not book value.  In many cases, a corporation's 
book value and business value are almost totally unrelated.  For 
example, just before they went bankrupt, LTV and Baldwin-United 
published yearend audits showing their book values to be $652 
million and $397 million, respectively.  Conversely, Belridge Oil 
was sold to Shell in 1979 for $3.6 billion although its book 
value was only $177 million. 

     At Berkshire, however, the two valuations have tracked 
rather closely, with the growth rate in business value over the 
last decade moderately outpacing the growth rate in book value.  
This good news continued in 1987. 

     Our premium of business value to book value has widened for 
two simple reasons: We own some remarkable businesses and they 
are run by even more remarkable managers. 

     You have a right to question that second assertion.  After 
all, CEOs seldom tell their shareholders that they have assembled 
a bunch of turkeys to run things.  Their reluctance to do so 
makes for some strange annual reports.  Oftentimes, in his 
shareholders' letter, a CEO will go on for pages detailing 
corporate performance that is woefully inadequate.  He will 
nonetheless end with a warm paragraph describing his managerial 
comrades as "our most precious asset." Such comments sometimes 
make you wonder what the other assets can possibly be. 

     At Berkshire, however, my appraisal of our operating 
managers is, if anything, understated.  To understand why, first 
take a look at page 7, where we show the earnings (on an 
historical-cost accounting basis) of our seven largest non-
financial units:  Buffalo News, Fechheimer, Kirby, Nebraska 
Furniture Mart, Scott Fetzer Manufacturing Group, See's Candies, 
and World Book.  In 1987, these seven business units had combined 
operating earnings before interest and taxes of $180 million. 

     By itself, this figure says nothing about economic 
performance.  To evaluate that, we must know how much total 
capital - debt and equity - was needed to produce these earnings.  
Debt plays an insignificant role at our seven units: Their net 
interest expense in 1987 was only $2 million.  Thus, pre-tax 
earnings on the equity capital employed by these businesses 
amounted to $178 million.  And this equity - again on an 
historical-cost basis - was only $175 million. 

     If these seven business units had operated as a single 
company, their 1987 after-tax earnings would have been 
approximately $100 million - a return of about 57% on equity 
capital.  You'll seldom see such a percentage anywhere, let alone 
at large, diversified companies with nominal leverage.  Here's a 
benchmark: In its 1988 Investor's Guide issue, Fortune reported 
that among the 500 largest industrial companies and 500 largest 
service companies, only six had averaged a return on equity of 
over 30% during the previous decade.  The best performer among 
the 1000 was Commerce Clearing House at 40.2%. 
 
     Of course, the returns that Berkshire earns from these seven 
units are not as high as their underlying returns because, in 
aggregate, we bought the businesses at a substantial premium to 
underlying equity capital.  Overall, these operations are carried 
on our books at about $222 million above the historical 
accounting values of the underlying assets.  However, the 
managers of the units should be judged by the returns they 
achieve on the underlying assets; what we pay for a business does 
not affect the amount of capital its manager has to work with. 
(If, to become a shareholder and part owner of Commerce Clearing 
House, you pay, say, six times book value, that does not change 
CCH's return on equity.) 

     Three important inferences can be drawn from the figures I 
have cited.  First, the current business value of these seven 
units is far above their historical book value and also far above 
the value at which they are carried on Berkshire's balance sheet.  
Second, because so little capital is required to run these 
businesses, they can grow while concurrently making almost all of 
their earnings available for deployment in new opportunities.  
Third, these businesses are run by truly extraordinary managers.  
The Blumkins, the Heldmans, Chuck Huggins, Stan Lipsey, and Ralph 
Schey all meld unusual talent, energy and character to achieve 
exceptional financial results. 

     For good reasons, we had very high expectations when we 
joined with these managers.  In every case, however, our 
experience has greatly exceeded those expectations.  We have 
received far more than we deserve, but we are willing to accept 
such inequities. (We subscribe to the view Jack Benny expressed 
upon receiving an acting award: "I don't deserve this, but then, 
I have arthritis and I don't deserve that either.") 

     Beyond the Sainted Seven, we have our other major unit, 
insurance, which I believe also has a business value well above 
the net assets employed in it.  However, appraising the business 
value of a property-casualty insurance company is a decidedly 
imprecise process.  The industry is volatile, reported earnings 
oftentimes are seriously inaccurate, and recent changes in the 
Tax Code will severely hurt future profitability.  Despite these 
problems, we like the business and it will almost certainly 
remain our largest operation.  Under Mike Goldberg's management, 
the insurance business should treat us well over time. 

     With managers like ours, my partner, Charlie Munger, and I 
have little to do with operations. in fact, it is probably fair 
to say that if we did more, less would be accomplished.  We have 
no corporate meetings, no corporate budgets, and no performance 
reviews (though our managers, of course, oftentimes find such 
procedures useful at their operating units).  After all, what can 
we tell the Blumkins about home furnishings, or the Heldmans 
about uniforms? 

     Our major contribution to the operations of our subsidiaries 
is applause.  But it is not the indiscriminate applause of a 
Pollyanna.  Rather it is informed applause based upon the two 
long careers we have spent intensively observing business 
performance and managerial behavior.  Charlie and I have seen so 
much of the ordinary in business that we can truly appreciate a 
virtuoso performance.  Only one response to the 1987 performance 
of our operating managers is appropriate: sustained, deafening 
applause. 

Sources of Reported Earnings 

     The table on the following page shows the major sources of 
Berkshire's reported earnings.  In the table, amortization of 
Goodwill and other major purchase-price accounting adjustments 
are not charged against the specific businesses to which they 
apply but, instead, are aggregated and shown separately.  In 
effect, this procedure presents the earnings of our businesses as 
they would have been reported had we not purchased them.  In 
appendixes to my letters in the 1983 and 1986 annual reports, I 
explained why this form of presentation seems to us to be more 
useful to investors and managers than the standard GAAP 
presentation, which makes purchase-price adjustments on a 
business-by business basis.  The total net earnings we show in 
the table are, of course, identical to the GAAP figures in our 
audited financial statements. 
 
     In the Business Segment Data on pages 36-38 and in the 
Management's Discussion section on pages 40-44 you will find much 
additional information about our businesses.  In these sections 
you will also find our segment earnings reported on a GAAP basis.  
I urge you to read that material, as well as Charlie Munger's 
letter to Wesco shareholders, describing the various businesses 
of that subsidiary, which starts on page 45. 

                                               (000s omitted) 
                                 ------------------------------------------
                                                         Berkshire's Share 
                                                          of Net Earnings 
                                                         (after taxes and 
                                   Pre-Tax Earnings     minority interests)
                                 -------------------    -------------------
                                   1987       1986        1987       1986 
                                 --------   --------    --------   --------
Operating Earnings: 
  Insurance Group: 
    Underwriting ............... $(55,429)  $(55,844)   $(20,696)  $(29,864) 
    Net Investment Income ......  152,483    107,143     136,658     96,440 
  Buffalo News .................   39,410     34,736      21,304     16,918 
  Fechheimer (Acquired 6/3/86)     13,332      8,400       6,580      3,792 
  Kirby ........................   22,408     20,218      12,891     10,508 
  Nebraska Furniture Mart ......   16,837     17,685       7,554      7,192 
  Scott Fetzer Mfg. Group ......   30,591     25,358      17,555     13,354 
  See's Candies ................   31,693     30,347      17,363     15,176 
  Wesco - other than Insurance      6,209      5,542       4,978      5,550 
  World Book ...................   25,745     21,978      15,136     11,670 
  Amortization of Goodwill .....   (2,862)    (2,555)     (2,862)    (2,555) 
  Other Purchase-Price 
     Accounting Adjustments ....   (5,546)   (10,033)     (6,544)   (11,031) 
  Interest on Debt and 
     Pre-Payment Penalty .......  (11,474)   (23,891)     (5,905)   (12,213) 
  Shareholder-Designated 
     Contributions .............   (4,938)    (3,997)     (2,963)    (2,158) 
  Other ........................   22,460     20,770      13,696      8,685 
                                 --------   --------    --------   --------
  Operating Earnings ...........  280,919    195,857     214,745    131,464 
  Sales of Securities ..........   27,319    216,242      19,807    150,897 
                                 --------   --------    --------   --------
Total Earnings - All Entities .. $308,238   $412,099    $234,552   $282,361 
                                 ========   ========    ========   ========
 
     Gypsy Rose Lee announced on one of her later birthdays: "I 
have everything I had last year; it's just that it's all two 
inches lower." As the table shows, during 1987 almost all of our 
businesses aged in a more upbeat way. 

     There's not a lot new to report about these businesses - and 
that's good, not bad.  Severe change and exceptional returns 
usually don't mix.  Most investors, of course, behave as if just 
the opposite were true.  That is, they usually confer the highest 
price-earnings ratios on exotic-sounding businesses that hold out 
the promise of feverish change.  That prospect lets investors 
fantasize about future profitability rather than face today's 
business realities.  For such investor-dreamers, any blind date 
is preferable to one with the girl next door, no matter how 
desirable she may be. 

     Experience, however, indicates that the best business 
returns are usually achieved by companies that are doing 
something quite similar today to what they were doing five or ten 
years ago.  That is no argument for managerial complacency.  
Businesses always have opportunities to improve service, product 
lines, manufacturing techniques, and the like, and obviously 
these opportunities should be seized.  But a business that 
constantly encounters major change also encounters many chances 
for major error.  Furthermore, economic terrain that is forever 
shifting violently is ground on which it is difficult to build a 
fortress-like business franchise.  Such a franchise is usually 
the key to sustained high returns. 

     The Fortune study I mentioned earlier supports our view.  
Only 25 of the 1,000 companies met two tests of economic 
excellence - an average return on equity of over 20% in the ten 
years, 1977 through 1986, and no year worse than 15%.  These 
business superstars were also stock market superstars: During the 
decade, 24 of the 25 outperformed the S&P 500. 
 
     The Fortune champs may surprise you in two respects.  First, 
most use very little leverage compared to their interest-paying 
capacity.  Really good businesses usually don't need to borrow.  
Second, except for one company that is "high-tech" and several 
others that manufacture ethical drugs, the companies are in 
businesses that, on balance, seem rather mundane.  Most sell non-
sexy products or services in much the same manner as they did ten 
years ago (though in larger quantities now, or at higher prices, 
or both).  The record of these 25 companies confirms that making 
the most of an already strong business franchise, or 
concentrating on a single winning business theme, is what usually 
produces exceptional economics. 

     Berkshire's experience has been similar.  Our managers have 
produced extraordinary results by doing rather ordinary things - 
but doing them exceptionally well.  Our managers protect their 
franchises, they control costs, they search for new products and 
markets that build on their existing strengths and they don't get 
diverted.  They work exceptionally hard at the details of their 
businesses, and it shows. 

     Here's an update: 

   o Agatha Christie, whose husband was an archaeologist, said 
that was the perfect profession for one's spouse: "The older you 
become, the more interested they are in you." It is students of 
business management, not archaeologists, who should be interested 
in Mrs. B (Rose Blumkin), the 94-year-old chairman of Nebraska 
Furniture Mart. 

     Fifty years ago Mrs. B started the business with $500, and 
today NFM is far and away the largest home furnishings store in 
the country.  Mrs. B continues to work seven days a week at the 
job from the opening of each business day until the close.  She 
buys, she sells, she manages - and she runs rings around the 
competition.  It's clear to me that she's gathering speed and may 
well reach her full potential in another five or ten years.  
Therefore, I've persuaded the Board to scrap our mandatory 
retirement-at-100 policy. (And it's about time:  With every 
passing year, this policy has seemed sillier to me.) 

     Net sales of NFM were $142.6 million in 1987, up 8% from 
1986.  There's nothing like this store in the country, and 
there's nothing like the family Mrs. B has produced to carry on: 
Her son Louie, and his three boys, Ron, Irv and Steve, possess 
the business instincts, integrity and drive of Mrs. B. They work 
as a team and, strong as each is individually, the whole is far 
greater than the sum of the parts. 

     The superb job done by the Blumkins benefits us as owners, 
but even more dramatically benefits NFM's customers.  They saved 
about $30 million in 1987 by buying from NFM.  In other words, 
the goods they bought would have cost that much more if purchased 
elsewhere. 

     You'll enjoy an anonymous letter I received last August: 
"Sorry to see Berkshire profits fall in the second quarter.  One 
way you may gain back part of your lost. (sic) Check the pricing 
at The Furniture Mart.  You will find that they are leaving 10% 
to 20% on the table.  This additional profit on $140 million of 
sells (sic) is $28 million.  Not small change in anyone's pocket!  
Check out other furniture, carpet, appliance and T.V. dealers.  
Your raising prices to a reasonable profit will help.  Thank you. 
/signed/ A Competitor." 

     NFM will continue to grow and prosper by following Mrs. B's 
maxim:  "Sell cheap and tell the truth." 

   o Among dominant papers of its size or larger, the Buffalo 
News continues to be the national leader in two important ways: 
(1) its weekday and Sunday penetration rate (the percentage of 
households in the paper's primary market area that purchase it); 
and (2) its "news-hole" percentage (the portion of the paper 
devoted to news).

     It may not be coincidence that one newspaper leads in both 
categories: an exceptionally "newsrich" product makes for broad 
audience appeal, which in turn leads to high penetration.  Of 
course, quantity must be matched by quality.  This not only 
means good reporting and good writing; it means freshness and 
relevance.  To be indispensable, a paper must promptly tell its 
readers many things they want to know but won't otherwise learn 
until much later, if ever. 
 
     At the News, we put out seven fresh editions every 24 hours, 
each one extensively changed in content.  Here's a small example 
that may surprise you: We redo the obituary page in every edition 
of the News, or seven times a day.  Any obituary added runs 
through the next six editions until the publishing cycle has been 
completed. 

     It's vital, of course, for a newspaper to cover national and 
international news well and in depth.  But it is also vital for 
it to do what only a local newspaper can: promptly and 
extensively chronicle the personally-important, otherwise-
unreported details of community life.  Doing this job well 
requires a very broad range of news - and that means lots of 
space, intelligently used. 

     Our news hole was about 50% in 1987, just as it has been 
year after year.  If we were to cut it to a more typical 40%, we 
would save approximately $4 million annually in newsprint costs.  
That interests us not at all - and it won't interest us even if, 
for one reason or another, our profit margins should 
significantly shrink. 

     Charlie and I do not believe in flexible operating budgets, 
as in "Non-direct expenses can be X if revenues are Y, but must 
be reduced if revenues are Y - 5%." Should we really cut our news 
hole at the Buffalo News, or the quality of product and service 
at See's, simply because profits are down during a given year or 
quarter?  Or, conversely, should we add a staff economist, a 
corporate strategist, an institutional advertising campaign or 
something else that does Berkshire no good simply because the 
money currently is rolling in? 

     That makes no sense to us.  We neither understand the adding 
of unneeded people or activities because profits are booming, nor 
the cutting of essential people or activities because 
profitability is shrinking.  That kind of yo-yo approach is 
neither business-like nor humane.  Our goal is to do what makes 
sense for Berkshire's customers and employees at all times, and 
never to add the unneeded. ("But what about the corporate jet?" 
you rudely ask.  Well, occasionally a man must rise above 
principle.) 

     Although the News' revenues have grown only moderately since 
1984, superb management by Stan Lipsey, its publisher, has 
produced excellent profit growth.  For several years, I have 
incorrectly predicted that profit margins at the News would fall.  
This year I will not let vou down: Margins will, without 
question, shrink in 1988 and profit may fall as well.  
Skyrocketing newsprint costs will be the major cause. 

   o Fechheimer Bros. Company is another of our family 
businesses - and, like the Blumkins, what a family.  Three 
generations of Heldmans have for decades consistently, built the 
sales and profits of this manufacturer and distributor of 
uniforms.  In the year that Berkshire acquired its controlling 
interest in Fechheimer - 1986 - profits were a record.  The 
Heldmans didn't slow down after that.  Last year earnings 
increased substantially and the outlook is good for 1988. 

     There's nothing magic about the Uniform business; the only 
magic is in the Heldmans.  Bob, George, Gary, Roger and Fred know 
the business inside and out, and they have fun running it.  We 
are fortunate to be in partnership with them. 

   o Chuck Huggins continues to set new records at See's, just as 
he has ever since we put him in charge on the day of our purchase 
some 16 years ago.  In 1987, volume hit a new high at slightly 
Under 25 million pounds.  For the second year in a row, moreover, 
same-store sales, measured in pounds, were virtually unchanged.  
In case you are wondering, that represents improvement: In each 
of the previous six years, same-store sales had fallen. 

     Although we had a particularly strong 1986 Christmas season, 
we racked up better store-for-store comparisons in the 1987 
Christmas season than at any other time of the year.  Thus, the 
seasonal factor at See's becomes even more extreme.  In 1987, 
about 85% of our profit was earned during December. 

     Candy stores are fun to visit, but most have not been fun 
for their owners.  From what we can learn, practically no one 
besides See's has made significant profits in recent years from 
the operation of candy shops.  Clearly, Chuck's record at See's 
is not due to a rising industry tide.  Rather, it is a one-of-a-
kind performance. 
 
     His achievement requires an excellent product - which we 
have - but it also requires genuine affection for the customer.  
Chuck is 100% customer-oriented, and his attitude sets the tone 
for the rest of the See's organization. 

     Here's an example of Chuck in action: At See's we regularly 
add new pieces of candy to our mix and also cull a few to keep 
our product line at about 100 varieties.  Last spring we selected 
14 items for elimination.  Two, it turned out, were badly missed 
by our customers, who wasted no time in letting us know what they 
thought of our judgment: "A pox on all in See's who participated 
in the abominable decision...;" "May your new truffles melt in 
transit, may they sour in people's mouths, may your costs go up 
and your profits go down...;" "We are investigating the 
possibility of obtaining a mandatory injunction requiring you to 
supply...;" You get the picture.  In all, we received many hundreds of 
letters. 

     Chuck not only reintroduced the pieces, he turned this 
miscue into an opportunity.  Each person who had written got a 
complete and honest explanation in return.  Said Chuck's letter: 
"Fortunately, when I make poor decisions, good things often 
happen as a result...;" And with the letter went a special gift 
certificate. 

     See's increased prices only slightly in the last two years.  
In 1988 we have raised prices somewhat more, though still 
moderately.  To date, sales have been weak and it may be 
difficult for See's to improve its earnings this year. 

   o World Book, Kirby, and the Scott Fetzer Manufacturing Group 
are all under the management of Ralph Schey.  And what a lucky 
thing for us that they are.  I told you last year that Scott 
Fetzer performance in 1986 had far exceeded the expectations that 
Charlie and I had at the time of our purchase.  Results in 1987 
were even better.  Pre-tax earnings rose 10% while average 
capital employed declined significantly.     

     Ralph's mastery of the 19 businesses for which he is 
responsible is truly amazing, and he has also attracted some 
outstanding managers to run them.  We would love to find a few 
additional units that could be put under Ralph's wing. 

     The businesses of Scott Fetzer are too numerous to describe 
in detail.  Let's just update you on one of our favorites: At the 
end of 1987, World Book introduced its most dramatically-revised 
edition since 1962.  The number of color photos was increased 
from 14,000 to 24,000; over 6,000 articles were revised; 840 new 
contributors were added.  Charlie and I recommend this product to 
you and your family, as we do World Book's products for younger 
children, Childcraft and Early World of Learning. 

     In 1987, World Book unit sales in the United States 
increased for the fifth consecutive year.  International sales 
and profits also grew substantially.  The outlook is good for 
Scott Fetzer operations in aggregate, and for World Book in 
particular. 

Insurance Operations 

     Shown below is an updated version of our usual table 
presenting key figures for the insurance industry: 

                              Statutory
          Yearly Change    Combined Ratio    Yearly Change   Inflation Rate 
           in Premiums   After Policyholder   in Incurred     Measured by 
           Written (%)        Dividends        Losses (%)   GNP Deflator (%)
          -------------  ------------------  -------------  ----------------
1981 .....     3.8              106.0             6.5              9.6 
1982 .....     4.4              109.8             8.4              6.4 
1983 .....     4.6              112.0             6.8              3.8 
1984 .....     9.2              117.9            16.9              3.7 
1985 .....    22.1              116.3            16.1              3.2 
1986 (Rev.)   22.2              108.0            13.5              2.6 
1987 (Est.)    8.7              104.7             6.8              3.0 
 
Source:  Best's Insurance Management Reports 
 
 
     The combined ratio represents total insurance costs (losses 
incurred plus expenses) compared to revenue from premiums: A 
ratio below 100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 
100 indicates a loss.  When the investment income that an insurer 
earns from holding on to policyholders' funds ("the float") is 
taken into account, a combined ratio in the 107-111 range 
typically produces an overall break-even result, exclusive of 
earnings on the funds provided by shareholders. 

     The math of the insurance business, encapsulated by the 
table, is not very complicated.  In years when the industry's 
annual gain in revenues (premiums) pokes along at 4% or 5%, 
underwriting losses are sure to mount.  That is not because auto 
accidents, fires, windstorms and the like are occurring more 
frequently, nor has it lately been the fault of general 
inflation.  Today, social and judicial inflation are the major 
culprits; the cost of entering a courtroom has simply ballooned.  
Part of the jump in cost arises from skyrocketing verdicts, and 
part from the tendency of judges and juries to expand the 
coverage of insurance policies beyond that contemplated by the 
insurer when the policies were written.  Seeing no let-up in 
either trend, we continue to believe that the industry's revenues 
must grow at about 10% annually for it to just hold its own in 
terms of profitability, even though general inflation may be 
running at a considerably lower rate. 

     The strong revenue gains of 1985-87 almost guaranteed the 
industry an excellent underwriting performance in 1987 and, 
indeed, it was a banner year.  But the news soured as the 
quarters rolled by:  Best's estimates that year-over-year volume 
increases were 12.9%, 11.1%, 5.7%, and 5.6%. In 1988, the
revenue gain is certain to be far below our 10% "equilibrium" 
figure.  Clearly, the party is over. 

     However, earnings will not immediately sink.  A lag factor 
exists in this industry: Because most policies are written for a 
one-year term, higher or lower insurance prices do not have their 
full impact on earnings until many months after they go into 
effect.  Thus, to resume our metaphor, when the party ends and 
the bar is closed, you are allowed to finish your drink.  If 
results are not hurt by a major natural catastrophe, we predict a 
small climb for the industry's combined ratio in 1988, followed 
by several years of larger increases. 

     The insurance industry is cursed with a set of dismal 
economic characteristics that make for a poor long-term outlook: 
hundreds of competitors, ease of entry, and a product that cannot 
be differentiated in any meaningful way.  In such a commodity-
like business, only a very low-cost operator or someone operating 
in a protected, and usually small, niche can sustain high 
profitability levels. 

     When shortages exist, however, even commodity businesses 
flourish.  The insurance industry enjoyed that kind of climate 
for a while but it is now gone.  One of the ironies of capitalism 
is that most managers in commodity industries abhor shortage 
conditions - even though those are the only circumstances 
permitting them good returns.  Whenever shortages appear, the 
typical manager simply can't wait to expand capacity and thereby 
plug the hole through which money is showering upon him.  This is 
precisely what insurance managers did in 1985-87, confirming 
again Disraeli's observation: "What we learn from history is that 
we do not learn from history." 

     At Berkshire, we work to escape the industry's commodity 
economics in two ways. First, we differentiate our product by our 
financial strength, which exceeds that of all others in the 
industry.  This strength, however, is limited in its usefulness. 
It means nothing in the personal insurance field:  The buyer of 
an auto or homeowners policy is going to get his claim paid even 
if his insurer fails (as many have).  It often means nothing in 
the commercial insurance arena: When times are good, many major 
corporate purchasers of insurance and their brokers pay scant 
attention to the insurer's ability to perform under the more 
adverse conditions that may exist, say, five years later when a 
complicated claim is finally resolved. (Out of sight, out of mind 
- and, later on, maybe out-of-pocket.) 

     Periodically, however, buyers remember Ben Franklin's 
observation that it is hard for an empty sack to stand upright 
and recognize their need to buy promises only from insurers that 
have enduring financial strength.  It is then that we have a 
major competitive advantage.  When a buyer really focuses on 
whether a $10 million claim can be easily paid by his insurer 
five or ten years down the road, and when he takes into account 
the possibility that poor underwriting conditions may then 
coincide with depressed financial markets and defaults by 
reinsurer, he will find only a few companies he can trust.  
Among those, Berkshire will lead the pack. 
 
     Our second method of differentiating ourselves is the total 
indifference to volume that we maintain.  In 1989, we will be 
perfectly willing to write five times as much business as we 
write in 1988 - or only one-fifth as much.  We hope, of course, 
that conditions will allow us large volume.  But we cannot 
control market prices.  If they are unsatisfactory, we will 
simply do very little business.  No other major insurer acts with 
equal restraint. 

     Three conditions that prevail in insurance, but not in most 
businesses, allow us our flexibility.  First, market share is not 
an important determinant of profitability: In this business, in 
contrast to the newspaper or grocery businesses, the economic 
rule is not survival of the fattest.  Second, in many sectors of 
insurance, including most of those in which we operate, 
distribution channels are not proprietary and can be easily 
entered: Small volume this year does not preclude huge volume 
next year.  Third, idle capacity - which in this industry largely 
means people - does not result in intolerable costs.  In a way 
that industries such as printing or steel cannot, we can operate 
at quarter-speed much of the time and still enjoy long-term 
prosperity. 

     We follow a price-based-on-exposure, not-on-competition 
policy because it makes sense for our shareholders.  But we're 
happy to report that it is also pro-social.  This policy means 
that we are always available, given prices that we believe are 
adequate, to write huge volumes of almost any type of property-
casualty insurance.  Many other insurers follow an in-and-out 
approach.  When they are "out" - because of mounting losses, 
capital inadequacy, or whatever - we are available.  Of course, 
when others are panting to do business we are also available - 
but at such times we often find ourselves priced above the 
market.  In effect, we supply insurance buyers and brokers with a 
large reservoir of standby capacity. 

     One story from mid-1987 illustrates some consequences of our 
pricing policy:  One of the largest family-owned insurance 
brokers in the country is headed by a fellow who has long been a 
shareholder of Berkshire.  This man handles a number of large 
risks that are candidates for placement with our New York office.  
Naturally, he does the best he can for his clients.  And, just as 
naturally, when the insurance market softened dramatically in 
1987 he found prices at other insurers lower than we were willing 
to offer.  His reaction was, first, to place all of his business 
elsewhere and, second, to buy more stock in Berkshire.  Had we 
been really competitive, he said, we would have gotten his 
insurance business but he would not have bought our stock. 

     Berkshire's underwriting experience was excellent in 1987, 
in part because of the lag factor discussed earlier.  Our 
combined ratio (on a statutory basis and excluding structured 
settlements and financial reinsurance) was 105.  Although the 
ratio was somewhat less favorable than in 1986, when it was 103, 
our profitability improved materially in 1987 because we had the 
use of far more float.  This trend will continue to run in our 
favor: Our ratio of float to premium volume will increase very 
significantly during the next few years.  Thus, Berkshire's 
insurance profits are quite likely to improve during 1988 and 
1989, even though we expect our combined ratio to rise. 

     Our insurance business has also made some important non-
financial gains during the last few years.  Mike Goldberg, its 
manager, has assembled a group of talented professionals to write 
larger risks and unusual coverages.  His operation is now well 
equipped to handle the lines of business that will occasionally 
offer us major opportunities. 

     Our loss reserve development, detailed on pages 41-42, looks 
better this year than it has previously.  But we write lots of 
"long-tail" business - that is, policies generating claims that 
often take many years to resolve.  Examples would be product 
liability, or directors and officers liability coverages.  With a 
business mix like this, one year of reserve development tells you 
very little. 

     You should be very suspicious of any earnings figures 
reported by insurers (including our own, as we have unfortunately 
proved to you in the past).  The record of the last decade shows 
that a great many of our best-known insurers have reported 
earnings to shareholders that later proved to be wildly 
erroneous.  In most cases, these errors were totally innocent: 
The unpredictability of our legal system makes it impossible for 
even the most conscientious insurer to come close to judging the 
eventual cost of long-tail claims. 
 
     Nevertheless, auditors annually certify the numbers given 
them by management and in their opinions unqualifiedly state that 
these figures "present fairly" the financial position of their 
clients.  The auditors use this reassuring language even though 
they know from long and painful experience that the numbers so 
certified are likely to differ dramatically from the true 
earnings of the period.  Despite this history of error, investors 
understandably rely upon auditors' opinions.  After all, a 
declaration saying that "the statements present fairly" hardly 
sounds equivocal to the non-accountant. 

     The wording in the auditor's standard opinion letter is 
scheduled to change next year.  The new language represents 
improvement, but falls far short of describing the limitations of 
a casualty-insurer audit.  If it is to depict the true state of 
affairs, we believe the standard opinion letter to shareholders 
of a property-casualty company should read something like: "We 
have relied upon representations of management in respect to the 
liabilities shown for losses and loss adjustment expenses, the 
estimate of which, in turn, very materially affects the earnings 
and financial condition herein reported.  We can express no 
opinion about the accuracy of these figures.  Subject to that 
important reservation, in our opinion, etc." 

     If lawsuits develop in respect to wildly inaccurate 
financial statements (which they do), auditors will definitely 
say something of that sort in court anyway.  Why should they not 
be forthright about their role and its limitations from the 
outset? 

     We want to emphasize that we are not faulting auditors for 
their inability to accurately assess loss reserves (and therefore 
earnings).  We fault them only for failing to publicly 
acknowledge that they can't do this job. 

     From all appearances, the innocent mistakes that are 
constantly made in reserving are accompanied by others that are 
deliberate.  Various charlatans have enriched themselves at the 
expense of the investing public by exploiting, first, the 
inability of auditors to evaluate reserve figures and, second, 
the auditors' willingness to confidently certify those figures as 
if they had the expertise to do so.  We will continue to see such 
chicanery in the future.  Where "earnings" can be created by the 
stroke of a pen, the dishonest will gather.  For them, long-tail 
insurance is heaven.  The audit wording we suggest would at least 
serve to put investors on guard against these predators. 

     The taxes that insurance companies pay - which increased 
materially, though on a delayed basis, upon enactment of the Tax 
Reform Act of 1986 - took a further turn for the worse at the end 
of 1987.  We detailed the 1986 changes in last year's report.  We 
also commented on the irony of a statute that substantially 
increased 1987 reported earnings for insurers even as it 
materially reduced both their long-term earnings potential and 
their business value.  At Berkshire, the temporarily-helpful 
"fresh start" adjustment inflated 1987 earnings by $8.2 million. 

     In our opinion, the 1986 Act was the most important economic 
event affecting the insurance industry over the past decade.  The 
1987 Bill further reduced the intercorporate dividends-received 
credit from 80% to 70%, effective January 1, 1988, except for 
cases in which the taxpayer owns at least 20% of an investee. 

     Investors who have owned stocks or bonds through corporate 
intermediaries other than qualified investment companies have 
always been disadvantaged in comparison to those owning the same 
securities directly.  The penalty applying to indirect ownership 
was greatly increased by the 1986 Tax Bill and, to a lesser 
extent, by the 1987 Bill, particularly in instances where the 
intermediary is an insurance company.  We have no way of 
offsetting this increased level of taxation.  It simply means 
that a given set of pre-tax investment returns will now translate 
into much poorer after-tax results for our shareholders. 

     All in all, we expect to do well in the insurance business, 
though our record is sure to be uneven.  The immediate outlook is 
for substantially lower volume but reasonable earnings 
improvement.  The decline in premium volume will accelerate after 
our quota-share agreement with Fireman's Fund expires in 1989.  
At some point, likely to be at least a few years away, we may see 
some major opportunities, for which we are now much better 
prepared than we were in 1985. 
 
Marketable Securities - Permanent Holdings

     Whenever Charlie and I buy common stocks for Berkshire's 
insurance companies (leaving aside arbitrage purchases, discussed 
later) we approach the transaction as if we were buying into a 
private business.  We look at the economic prospects of the 
business, the people in charge of running it, and the price we 
must pay.  We do not have in mind any time or price for sale.  
Indeed, we are willing to hold a stock indefinitely so long as we 
expect the business to increase in intrinsic value at a 
satisfactory rate.  When investing, we view ourselves as business 
analysts - not as market analysts, not as macroeconomic analysts, 
and not even as security analysts. 

     Our approach makes an active trading market useful, since it 
periodically presents us with mouth-watering opportunities.  But 
by no means is it essential: a prolonged suspension of trading in 
the securities we hold would not bother us any more than does the 
lack of daily quotations on World Book or Fechheimer.  
Eventually, our economic fate will be determined by the economic 
fate of the business we own, whether our ownership is partial or 
total. 

     Ben Graham, my friend and teacher, long ago described the 
mental attitude toward market fluctuations that I believe to be 
most conducive to investment success.  He said that you should 
imagine market quotations as coming from a remarkably 
accommodating fellow named Mr. Market who is your partner in a 
private business.  Without fail, Mr. Market appears daily and 
names a price at which he will either buy your interest or sell 
you his. 

     Even though the business that the two of you own may have 
economic characteristics that are stable, Mr. Market's quotations 
will be anything but.  For, sad to say, the poor fellow has 
incurable emotional problems.  At times he feels euphoric and can 
see only the favorable factors affecting the business.  When in 
that mood, he names a very high buy-sell price because he fears 
that you will snap up his interest and rob him of imminent gains.  
At other times he is depressed and can see nothing but trouble 
ahead for both the business and the world.  On these occasions he 
will name a very low price, since he is terrified that you will 
unload your interest on him. 

     Mr. Market has another endearing characteristic: He doesn't 
mind being ignored.  If his quotation is uninteresting to you 
today, he will be back with a new one tomorrow.  Transactions are 
strictly at your option.  Under these conditions, the more manic-
depressive his behavior, the better for you. 

     But, like Cinderella at the ball, you must heed one warning 
or everything will turn into pumpkins and mice: Mr. Market is 
there to serve you, not to guide you.  It is his pocketbook, not 
his wisdom, that you will find useful.  If he shows up some day 
in a particularly foolish mood, you are free to either ignore him 
or to take advantage of him, but it will be disastrous if you 
fall under his influence.  Indeed, if you aren't certain that you 
understand and can value your business far better than Mr. 
Market, you don't belong in the game.  As they say in poker, "If 
you've been in the game 30 minutes and you don't know who the 
patsy is, you're the patsy." 

     Ben's Mr. Market allegory may seem out-of-date in today's 
investment world, in which most professionals and academicians 
talk of efficient markets, dynamic hedging and betas.  Their 
interest in such matters is understandable, since techniques 
shrouded in mystery clearly have value to the purveyor of 
investment advice.  After all, what witch doctor has ever 
achieved fame and fortune by simply advising "Take two aspirins"? 

     The value of market esoterica to the consumer of investment 
advice is a different story.  In my opinion, investment success 
will not be produced by arcane formulae, computer programs or 
signals flashed by the price behavior of stocks and markets.  
Rather an investor will succeed by coupling good business 
judgment with an ability to insulate his thoughts and behavior 
from the super-contagious emotions that swirl about the 
marketplace.  In my own efforts to stay insulated, I have found 
it highly useful to keep Ben's Mr. Market concept firmly in mind. 
 
     Following Ben's teachings, Charlie and I let our marketable 
equities tell us by their operating results - not by their daily, 
or even yearly, price quotations - whether our investments are 
successful.  The market may ignore business success for a while, 
but eventually will confirm it.  As Ben said: "In the short run, 
the market is a voting machine but in the long run it is a 
weighing machine." The speed at which a business's success is 
recognized, furthermore, is not that important as long as the 
company's intrinsic value is increasing at a satisfactory rate.  
In fact, delayed recognition can be an advantage: It may give us 
the chance to buy more of a good thing at a bargain price. 

     Sometimes, of course, the market may judge a business to be 
more valuable than the underlying facts would indicate it is.  In 
such a case, we will sell our holdings.  Sometimes, also, we will 
sell a security that is fairly valued or even undervalued because 
we require funds for a still more undervalued investment or one 
we believe we understand better. 

     We need to emphasize, however, that we do not sell holdings 
just because they have appreciated or because we have held them 
for a long time. (Of Wall Street maxims the most foolish may be 
"You can't go broke taking a profit.") We are quite content to 
hold any security indefinitely, so long as the prospective return 
on equity capital of the underlying business is satisfactory, 
management is competent and honest, and the market does not 
overvalue the business. 

     However, our insurance companies own three marketable common 
stocks that we would not sell even though they became far 
overpriced in the market.  In effect, we view these investments 
exactly like our successful controlled businesses - a permanent 
part of Berkshire rather than merchandise to be disposed of once 
Mr. Market offers us a sufficiently high price.  To that, I will 
add one qualifier: These stocks are held by our insurance 
companies and we would, if absolutely necessary, sell portions of 
our holdings to pay extraordinary insurance losses.  We intend, 
however, to manage our affairs so that sales are never required. 

     A determination to have and to hold, which Charlie and I 
share, obviously involves a mixture of personal and financial 
considerations.  To some, our stand may seem highly eccentric. 
(Charlie and I have long followed David Oglivy's advice: "Develop 
your eccentricities while you are young.  That way, when you get 
old, people won't think you're going ga-ga.") Certainly, in the 
transaction-fixated Wall Street of recent years, our posture must 
seem odd: To many in that arena, both companies and stocks are 
seen only as raw material for trades. 

     Our attitude, however, fits our personalities and the way we 
want to live our lives.  Churchill once said, "You shape your 
houses and then they shape you." We know the manner in which we 
wish to be shaped.  For that reason, we would rather achieve a 
return of X while associating with people whom we strongly like 
and admire than realize 110% of X by exchanging these 
relationships for uninteresting or unpleasant ones.  And we will 
never find people we like and admire more than some of the main 
participants at the three companies - our permanent holdings - 
shown below: 

No. of Shares                                          Cost       Market
-------------                                       ----------  ----------
                                                        (000s omitted) 
  3,000,000    Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. ...........  $517,500   $1,035,000 
  6,850,000    GEICO Corporation ..................    45,713      756,925 
  1,727,765    The Washington Post Company ........     9,731      323,092 
 
     We really don't see many fundamental differences between the 
purchase of a controlled business and the purchase of marketable 
holdings such as these.  In each case we try to buy into 
businesses with favorable long-term economics.  Our goal is to 
find an outstanding business at a sensible price, not a mediocre 
business at a bargain price.  Charlie and I have found that 
making silk purses out of silk is the best that we can do; with 
sow's ears, we fail. 

     (It must be noted that your Chairman, always a quick study, 
required only 20 years to recognize how important it was to buy 
good businesses.  In the interim, I searched for "bargains" - and 
had the misfortune to find some.  My punishment was an education 
in the economics of short-line farm implement manufacturers, 
third-place department stores, and New England textile 
manufacturers.) 
 
     Of course, Charlie and I may misread the fundamental 
economics of a business.  When that happens, we will encounter 
problems whether that business is a wholly-owned subsidiary or a 
marketable security, although it is usually far easier to exit 
from the latter. (Indeed, businesses can be misread:  Witness the 
European reporter who, after being sent to this country to 
profile Andrew Carnegie, cabled his editor, "My God, you'll never 
believe the sort of money there is in running libraries.") 

     In making both control purchases and stock purchases, we try 
to buy not only good businesses, but ones run by high-grade, 
talented and likeable managers.  If we make a mistake about the 
managers we link up with, the controlled company offers a certain 
advantage because we have the power to effect change.  In 
practice, however, this advantage is somewhat illusory: 
Management changes, like marital changes, are painful, time-
consuming and chancy.  In any event, at our three marketable-but 
permanent holdings, this point is moot:  With Tom Murphy and Dan 
Burke at Cap Cities, Bill Snyder and Lou Simpson at GEICO, and 
Kay Graham and Dick Simmons at The Washington Post, we simply 
couldn't be in better hands. 

     I would say that the controlled company offers two main 
advantages.  First, when we control a company we get to allocate 
capital, whereas we are likely to have little or nothing to say 
about this process with marketable holdings.  This point can be 
important because the heads of many companies are not skilled in 
capital allocation.  Their inadequacy is not surprising.  Most 
bosses rise to the top because they have excelled in an area such 
as marketing, production, engineering, administration or, 
sometimes, institutional politics. 

     Once they become CEOs, they face new responsibilities.  They 
now must make capital allocation decisions, a critical job that 
they may have never tackled and that is not easily mastered.  To 
stretch the point, it's as if the final step for a highly-
talented musician was not to perform at Carnegie Hall but, 
instead, to be named Chairman of the Federal Reserve. 

     The lack of skill that many CEOs have at capital allocation 
is no small matter: After ten years on the job, a CEO whose 
company annually retains earnings equal to 10% of net worth will 
have been responsible for the deployment of more than 60% of all 
the capital at work in the business. 

     CEOs who recognize their lack of capital-allocation skills 
(which not all do) will often try to compensate by turning to 
their staffs, management consultants, or investment bankers.  
Charlie and I have frequently observed the consequences of such 
"help." On balance, we feel it is more likely to accentuate the 
capital-allocation problem than to solve it. 

     In the end, plenty of unintelligent capital allocation takes 
place in corporate America. (That's why you hear so much about 
"restructuring.") Berkshire, however, has been fortunate.  At the 
companies that are our major non-controlled holdings, capital has 
generally been well-deployed and, in some cases, brilliantly so. 

     The second advantage of a controlled company over a 
marketable security has to do with taxes.  Berkshire, as a 
corporate holder, absorbs some significant tax costs through the 
ownership of partial positions that we do not when our ownership 
is 80%, or greater.  Such tax disadvantages have long been with 
us, but changes in the tax code caused them to increase 
significantly during the past year.  As a consequence, a given 
business result can now deliver Berkshire financial results that 
are as much as 50% better if they come from an 80%-or-greater 
holding rather than from a lesser holding. 

     The disadvantages of owning marketable securities are 
sometimes offset by a huge advantage:  Occasionally the stock 
market offers us the chance to buy non-controlling pieces of 
extraordinary businesses at truly ridiculous prices - 
dramatically below those commanded in negotiated transactions 
that transfer control.  For example, we purchased our Washington 
Post stock in 1973 at $5.63 per share, and per-share operating 
earnings in 1987 after taxes were $10.30.  Similarly, Our GEICO 
stock was purchased in 1976, 1979 and 1980 at an average of $6.67 
per share, and after-tax operating earnings per share last year 
were $9.01. In cases such as these, Mr. Market has proven to be a 
mighty good friend. 
 
     An interesting accounting irony overlays a comparison of the 
reported financial results of our controlled companies with those 
of the permanent minority holdings listed above.  As you can see, 
those three stocks have a market value of over $2 billion.  Yet 
they produced only $11 million in reported after-tax earnings for 
Berkshire in 1987. 

     Accounting rules dictate that we take into income only the 
dividends these companies pay us - which are little more than 
nominal - rather than our share of their earnings, which in 1987 
amounted to well over $100 million.  On the other hand, 
accounting rules provide that the carrying value of these three 
holdings - owned, as they are, by insurance companies - must be 
recorded on our balance sheet at current market prices.  The 
result: GAAP accounting lets us reflect in our net worth the up-
to-date underlying values of the businesses we partially own, but 
does not let us reflect their underlying earnings in our income 
account. 

     In the case of our controlled companies, just the opposite 
is true.  Here, we show full earnings in our income account but 
never change asset values on our balance sheet, no matter how 
much the value of a business might have increased since we 
purchased it. 

     Our mental approach to this accounting schizophrenia is to 
ignore GAAP figures and to focus solely on the future earning 
power of both our controlled and non-controlled businesses.  
Using this approach, we establish our own ideas of business 
value, keeping these independent from both the accounting values 
shown on our books for controlled companies and the values placed 
by a sometimes foolish market on our partially-owned companies.  
It is this business value that we hope to increase at a 
reasonable (or, preferably, unreasonable) rate in the years 
ahead. 

Marketable Securities - Other

     In addition to our three permanent common stock holdings, we 
hold large quantities of marketable securities in our insurance 
companies.  In selecting these, we can choose among five major 
categories: (1) long-term common stock investments, (2) medium-
term fixed-income securities, (3) long-term fixed income 
securities, (4) short-term cash equivalents, and (5) short-term 
arbitrage commitments. 

     We have no particular bias when it comes to choosing from 
these categories.  We just continuously search among them for the 
highest after-tax returns as measured by "mathematical 
expectation," limiting ourselves always to investment 
alternatives we think we understand.  Our criteria have nothing 
to do with maximizing immediately reportable earnings; our goal, 
rather, is to maximize eventual net worth. 

   o Let's look first at common stocks.  During 1987 the stock 
market was an area of much excitement but little net movement: 
The Dow advanced 2.3% for the year.  You are aware, of course, of 
the roller coaster ride that produced this minor change.  Mr. 
Market was on a manic rampage until October and then experienced 
a sudden, massive seizure. 

     We have "professional" investors, those who manage many 
billions, to thank for most of this turmoil.  Instead of focusing 
on what businesses will do in the years ahead, many prestigious 
money managers now focus on what they expect other money managers 
to do in the days ahead.  For them, stocks are merely tokens in a 
game, like the thimble and flatiron in Monopoly. 
 
     An extreme example of what their attitude leads to is 
"portfolio insurance," a money-management strategy that many 
leading investment advisors embraced in 1986-1987.  This strategy 
- which is simply an exotically-labeled version of the small 
speculator's stop-loss order dictates that ever increasing 
portions of a stock portfolio, or their index-future equivalents, 
be sold as prices decline.  The strategy says nothing else 
matters: A downtick of a given magnitude automatically produces a 
huge sell order.  According to the Brady Report, $60 billion to 
$90 billion of equities were poised on this hair trigger in mid-
October of 1987. 
 
     If you've thought that investment advisors were hired to 
invest, you may be bewildered by this technique.  After buying a 
farm, would a rational owner next order his real estate agent to 
start selling off pieces of it whenever a neighboring property 
was sold at a lower price?  Or would you sell your house to 
whatever bidder was available at 9:31 on some morning merely 
because at 9:30 a similar house sold for less than it would have 
brought on the previous day? 
 
     Moves like that, however, are what portfolio insurance tells 
a pension fund or university to make when it owns a portion of 
enterprises such as Ford or General Electric.  The less these 
companies are being valued at, says this approach, the more 
vigorously they should be sold.  As a "logical" corollary, the 
approach commands the institutions to repurchase these companies 
- I'm not making this up - once their prices have rebounded 
significantly.  Considering that huge sums are controlled by 
managers following such Alice-in-Wonderland practices, is it any 
surprise that markets sometimes behave in aberrational fashion? 

     Many commentators, however, have drawn an incorrect 
conclusion upon observing recent events: They are fond of saying 
that the small investor has no chance in a market now dominated 
by the erratic behavior of the big boys.  This conclusion is dead 
wrong: Such markets are ideal for any investor - small or large - 
so long as he sticks to his investment knitting.  Volatility 
caused by money managers who speculate irrationally with huge 
sums will offer the true investor more chances to make 
intelligent investment moves.  He can be hurt by such volatility 
only if he is forced, by either financial or psychological 
pressures, to sell at untoward times. 

     At Berkshire, we have found little to do in stocks during 
the past few years.  During the break in October, a few stocks 
fell to prices that interested us, but we were unable to make 
meaningful purchases before they rebounded.  At yearend 1987 we 
had no major common stock investments (that is, over $50 million) 
other than those we consider permanent or arbitrage holdings.  
However, Mr. Market will offer us opportunities - you can be sure 
of that - and, when he does, we will be willing and able to 
participate. 

   o In the meantime, our major parking place for money is 
medium-term tax-exempt bonds, whose limited virtues I explained 
in last year's annual report.  Though we both bought and sold 
some of these bonds in 1987, our position changed little overall, 
holding around $900 million.  A large portion of our bonds are 
"grandfathered" under the Tax Reform Act of 1986, which means 
they are fully tax-exempt.  Bonds currently purchased by 
insurance companies are not. 

     As an alternative to short-term cash equivalents, our 
medium-term tax-exempts have - so far served us well.  They have 
produced substantial extra income for us and are currently worth 
a bit above our cost.  Regardless of their market price, we are 
ready to dispose of our bonds whenever something better comes 
along. 

   o We continue to have an aversion to long-term bonds (and may 
be making a serious mistake by not disliking medium-term bonds as 
well).  Bonds are no better than the currency in which they are 
denominated, and nothing we have seen in the past year - or past 
decade - makes us enthusiastic about the long-term future of U.S. 
currency. 

     Our enormous trade deficit is causing various forms of 
"claim checks" - U.S. government and corporate bonds, bank 
deposits, etc. - to pile up in the hands of foreigners at a 
distressing rate.  By default, our government has adopted an 
approach to its finances patterned on that of Blanche DuBois, of 
A Streetcar Named Desire, who said, "I have always depended on 
the kindness of strangers." In this case, of course, the 
"strangers" are relying on the integrity of our claim checks 
although the plunging dollar has already made that proposition 
expensive for them. 

     The faith that foreigners are placing in us may be 
misfounded.  When the claim checks outstanding grow sufficiently 
numerous and when the issuing party can unilaterally determine 
their purchasing power, the pressure on the issuer to dilute 
their value by inflating the currency becomes almost 
irresistible.  For the debtor government, the weapon of inflation 
is the economic equivalent of the "H" bomb, and that is why very 
few countries have been allowed to swamp the world with debt 
denominated in their own currency.  Our past, relatively good 
record for fiscal integrity has let us break this rule, but the 
generosity accorded us is likely to intensify, rather than 
relieve, the eventual pressure on us to inflate.  If we do 
succumb to that pressure, it won't be just the foreign holders of 
our claim checks who will suffer.  It will be all of us as well. 

     Of course, the U.S. may take steps to stem our trade deficit 
well before our position as a net debtor gets out of hand. (In 
that respect, the falling dollar will help, though unfortunately 
it will hurt in other ways.) Nevertheless, our government's 
behavior in this test of its mettle is apt to be consistent with 
its Scarlett O'Hara approach generally: "I'll think about it 
tomorrow." And, almost inevitably, procrastination in facing up 
to fiscal problems will have inflationary consequences. 
 
     Both the timing and the sweep of those consequences are 
unpredictable.  But our inability to quantify or time the risk 
does not mean we should ignore it.  While recognizing the 
possibility that we may be wrong and that present interest rates 
may adequately compensate for the inflationary risk, we retain a 
general fear of long-term bonds. 

     We are, however, willing to invest a moderate portion of our 
funds in this category if we think we have a significant edge in 
a specific security.  That willingness explains our holdings of 
the Washington Public Power Supply Systems #1, #2 and #3 issues, 
discussed in our 1984 report.  We added to our WPPSS position 
during 1987.  At yearend, we had holdings with an amortized cost 
of $240 million and a market value of $316 million, paying us 
tax-exempt income of $34 million annually. 

   o We continued to do well in arbitrage last year, though - or 
perhaps because - we operated on a very limited scale.  We enter 
into only a few arbitrage commitments each year and restrict 
ourselves to large transactions that have been publicly 
announced.  We do not participate in situations in which green-
mailers are attempting to put a target company "in play." 

     We have practiced arbitrage on an opportunistic basis for 
decades and, to date, our results have been quite good.  Though 
we've never made an exact calculation, I believe that overall we 
have averaged annual pre-tax returns of at least 25% from 
arbitrage.  I'm quite sure we did better than that in 1987.  But 
it should be emphasized that a really bad experience or two - 
such as many arbitrage operations suffered in late 1987 - could 
change the figures dramatically. 

     Our only $50 million-plus arbitrage position at yearend 1987 
was 1,096,200 shares of Allegis, with a cost of $76 million and a 
market value of $78 million. 

   o We had two other large holdings at yearend that do not fit 
precisely into any of our five categories.  One was various 
Texaco, Inc. bonds with short maturities, all purchased after 
Texaco went into bankruptcy.  Were it not for the extraordinarily 
strong capital position of our insurance companies, it would be 
inappropriate for us to buy defaulted bonds.  At prices 
prevailing after Texaco's bankruptcy filing, however, we regarded 
these issues as by far the most attractive bond investment 
available to us. 

     On a worst-case basis with respect to the Pennzoil 
litigation, we felt the bonds were likely to be worth about what 
we paid for them.  Given a sensible settlement, which seemed 
likely, we expected the bonds to be worth considerably more.  At 
yearend our Texaco bonds were carried on our books at $104 
million and had a market value of $119 million. 

     By far our largest - and most publicized - investment in 
1987 was a $700 million purchase of Salomon Inc 9% preferred 
stock.  This preferred is convertible after three years into 
Salomon common stock at $38 per share and, if not converted, will 
be redeemed ratably over five years beginning October 31, 1995.  
From most standpoints, this commitment fits into the medium-term 
fixed-income securities category.  In addition, we have an 
interesting conversion possibility. 

     We, of course, have no special insights regarding the 
direction or future profitability of investment banking.  By 
their nature, the economics of this industry are far less 
predictable than those of most other industries in which we have 
major Commitments.  This unpredictability is one of the reasons 
why our participation is in the form of a convertible preferred. 

     What we do have a strong feeling about is the ability and 
integrity of John Gutfreund, CEO of Salomon Inc.  Charlie and I 
like, admire and trust John.  We first got to know him in 1976 
when he played a key role in GEICO's escape from near-bankruptcy.  
Several times since, we have seen John steer clients away from 
transactions that would have been unwise, but that the client 
clearly wanted to make - even though his advice provided no fee 
to Salomon and acquiescence would have delivered a large fee.  
Such service-above-self behavior is far from automatic in Wall 
Street. 

     For the reasons Charlie outlines on page 50, at yearend we 
valued our Salomon investment at 98% of par, $14 million less 
than our cost.  However, we believe there is a reasonable 
likelihood that a leading, high-quality capital-raising and 
market-making operation can average good returns on equity.  If 
so, our conversion right will eventually prove to be valuable. 
 
     Two further comments about our investments in marketable 
securities are appropriate.  First, we give you our usual 
warning: Our holdings have changed since yearend and will 
continue to do so without notice. 

     The second comment is related: During 1987, as in some 
earlier years, there was speculation in the press from time to 
time about our purchase or sale of various securities.  These 
stories were sometimes true, sometimes partially true, and other 
times completely untrue.  Interestingly, there has been no 
correlation between the size and prestige of the publication and 
the accuracy of the report.  One dead-wrong rumor was given 
considerable prominence by a major national magazine, and another 
leading publication misled its readers by writing about an 
arbitrage position as if it were a long-term investment 
commitment. (In not naming names, I am observing the old warning 
that it's not wise to pick fights with people who buy ink by the 
barrel.) 

     You should understand that we simply don't comment in any 
way on rumors, whether they are true or false.  If we were to 
deny the incorrect reports and refuse comment on the correct 
ones, we would in effect be commenting on all. 

     In a world in which big investment ideas are both limited 
and valuable, we have no interest in telling potential 
competitors what we are doing except to the extent required by 
law.  We certainly don't expect others to tell us of their 
investment ideas.  Nor would we expect a media company to 
disclose news of acquisitions it was privately pursuing or a 
journalist to tell his competitors about stories on which he is 
working or sources he is using. 

     I find it uncomfortable when friends or acquaintances 
mention that they are buying X because it has been reported - 
incorrectly - that Berkshire is a buyer.  However, I do not set 
them straight.  If they want to participate in whatever Berkshire 
actually is buying, they can always purchase Berkshire stock.  
But perhaps that is too simple.  Usually, I suspect, they find it 
more exciting to buy what is being talked about.  Whether that 
strategy is more profitable is another question. 

Financing
 
     Shortly after yearend, Berkshire sold two issues of 
debentures, totaling $250 million.  Both issues mature in 2018 
and will be retired at an even pace through sinking fund 
operations that begin in 1999.  Our overall interest cost, after 
allowing for expenses of issuance, is slightly over 10%.  Salomon 
was our investment banker, and its service was excellent. 

     Despite our pessimistic views about inflation, our taste for 
debt is quite limited.  To be sure, it is likely that Berkshire 
could improve its return on equity by moving to a much higher, 
though still conventional, debt-to-business-value ratio.  It's 
even more likely that we could handle such a ratio, without 
problems, under economic conditions far worse than any that have 
prevailed since the early 1930s. 

     But we do not wish it to be only likely that we can meet our 
obligations; we wish that to be certain.  Thus we adhere to 
policies - both in regard to debt and all other matters - that 
will allow us to achieve acceptable long-term results under 
extraordinarily adverse conditions, rather than optimal results 
under a normal range of conditions. 

     Good business or investment decisions will eventually 
produce quite satisfactory economic results, with no aid from 
leverage.  Therefore, it seems to us to be both foolish and 
improper to risk what is important (including, necessarily, the 
welfare of innocent bystanders such as policyholders and 
employees) for some extra returns that are relatively 
unimportant.  This view is not the product of either our 
advancing age or prosperity: Our opinions about debt have 
remained constant. 

     However, we are not phobic about borrowing. (We're far from 
believing that there is no fate worse than debt.) We are willing 
to borrow an amount that we believe - on a worst-case basis - 
will pose no threat to Berkshire's well-being.  Analyzing what 
that amount might be, we can look to some important strengths 
that would serve us well if major problems should engulf our 
economy: Berkshire's earnings come from many diverse and well-
entrenched businesses; these businesses seldom require much 
capital investment; what debt we have is structured well; and we 
maintain major holdings of liquid assets.  Clearly, we could be 
comfortable with a higher debt-to-business-value ratio than we 
now have. 

     One further aspect of our debt policy deserves comment: 
Unlike many in the business world, we prefer to finance in 
anticipation of need rather than in reaction to it.  A business 
obtains the best financial results possible by managing both 
sides of its balance sheet well.  This means obtaining the 
highest-possible return on assets and the lowest-possible cost on 
liabilities.  It would be convenient if opportunities for 
intelligent action on both fronts coincided.  However, reason 
tells us that just the opposite is likely to be the case: Tight 
money conditions, which translate into high costs for 
liabilities, will create the best opportunities for acquisitions, 
and cheap money will cause assets to be bid to the sky.  Our 
conclusion:  Action on the liability side should sometimes be 
taken independent of any action on the asset side. 

     Alas, what is "tight" and "cheap" money is far from clear at 
any particular time.  We have no ability to forecast interest 
rates and - maintaining our usual open-minded spirit - believe 
that no one else can.  Therefore, we simply borrow when 
conditions seem non-oppressive and hope that we will later find 
intelligent expansion or acquisition opportunities, which - as we 
have said - are most likely to pop up when conditions in the debt 
market are clearly oppressive.  Our basic principle is that if 
you want to shoot rare, fast-moving elephants, you should always 
carry a loaded gun. 

     Our fund-first, buy-or-expand-later policy almost always 
penalizes near-term earnings.  For example, we are now earning 
about 6 1/2% on the $250 million we recently raised at 10%, a 
disparity that is currently costing us about $160,000 per week.  
This negative spread is unimportant to us and will not cause us 
to stretch for either acquisitions or higher-yielding short-term 
instruments.  If we find the right sort of business elephant 
within the next five years or so, the wait will have been 
worthwhile. 

Miscellaneous 

     We hope to buy more businesses that are similar to the ones 
we have, and we can use some help.  If you have a business that 
fits the following criteria, call me or, preferably, write. 

     Here's what we're looking for: 

     (1) large purchases (at least $10 million of after-tax 
         earnings), 

     (2) demonstrated consistent earning power (future 
         projections are of little interest to us, nor are 
         "turnaround" situations), 

     (3) businesses earning good returns on equity while 
         employing little or no debt, 

     (4) management in place (we can't supply it), 

     (5) simple businesses (if there's lots of technology, 
         we won't understand it), 

     (6) an offering price (we don't want to waste our time 
         or that of the seller by talking, even preliminarily, 
         about a transaction when price is unknown). 
 
     We will not engage in unfriendly takeovers.  We can promise 
complete confidentiality and a very fast answer - customarily 
within five minutes - as to whether we're interested.  We prefer 
to buy for cash, but will consider issuing stock when we receive 
as much in intrinsic business value as we give.  We invite 
potential sellers to check us out by contacting people with whom 
we have done business in the past.  For the right business - and 
the right people - we can provide a good home. 
 
     On the other hand, we frequently get approached about 
acquisitions that don't come close to meeting our tests: new 
ventures, turnarounds, auction-like sales, and the ever-popular 
(among brokers) "I'm-sure-something-will-work-out-if-you-people-
get-to-know-each-other." None of these attracts us in the least. 

     Besides being interested in the purchases of entire 
businesses as described above, we are also interested in the 
negotiated purchase of large, but not controlling, blocks of 
stock comparable to those we hold in Cap Cities and Salomon.  We 
have a special interest in purchasing convertible preferreds as a 
long-term investment, as we did at Salomon. 

                          *  *  * 

     And now a bit of deja vu.  Most of Berkshire's major 
stockholders received their shares at yearend 1969 in a 
liquidating distribution from Buffett Partnership, Ltd.  Some of 
these former partners will remember that in 1962 I encountered 
severe managerial problems at Dempster Mill Manufacturing Co., a 
pump and farm implement manufacturing company that BPL 
controlled. 

     At that time, like now, I went to Charlie with problems that 
were too tough for me to solve.  Charlie suggested the solution 
might lie in a California friend of his, Harry Bottle, whose 
special knack was never forgetting the fundamental.  I met Harry 
in Los Angeles on April 17, 1962, and on April 23 he was in 
Beatrice, Nebraska, running Dempster.  Our problems disappeared 
almost immediately.  In my 1962 annual letter to partners, I 
named Harry "Man of the Year." 

     Fade to 24 years later: The scene is K & W Products, a small 
Berkshire subsidiary that produces automotive compounds.  For 
years K & W did well, but in 1985-86 it stumbled badly, as it 
pursued the unattainable to the neglect of the achievable.  
Charlie, who oversees K & W, knew there was no need to consult 
me.  Instead, he called Harry, now 68 years old, made him CEO, 
and sat back to await the inevitable.  He didn't wait long.  In 
1987 K & W's profits set a record, up more than 300% from 1986.  
And, as profits went up, capital employed went down: K & W's 
investment in accounts receivable and inventories has decreased 
20%. 

     If we run into another managerial problem ten or twenty 
years down the road, you know whose phone will ring. 

                          *  *  * 

     About 97.2% of all eligible shares participated in 
Berkshire's 1987 shareholder-designated contributions program.  
Contributions made through the program were $4.9 million, and 
2,050 charities were recipients. 

     A recent survey reported that about 50% of major American 
companies match charitable contributions made by directors 
(sometimes by a factor of three to one).  In effect, these 
representatives of the owners direct funds to their favorite 
charities, and never consult the owners as to their charitable 
preferences. (I wonder how they would feel if the process were 
reversed and shareholders could invade the directors' pockets for 
charities favored by the shareholders.) When A takes money from B 
to give to C and A is a legislator, the process is called 
taxation.  But when A is an officer or director of a corporation, 
it is called philanthropy.  We continue to believe that 
contributions, aside from those with quite clear direct benefits 
to the company, should reflect the charitable preferences of 
owners rather than those of officers and directors. 

     We urge new shareholders to read the description of our 
shareholder-designated contributions program that appears on 
pages 54 and 55.  If you wish to participate in future programs, 
we strongly urge that you immediately make sure your shares are 
registered in the name of the actual owner, not in "street" name 
or nominee name.  Shares not so registered on September 30, l988 
will be ineligible for the 1988 program. 
 
                          *  *  * 

     Last year we again had about 450 shareholders at our annual 
meeting.  The 60 or so questions they asked were, as always, 
excellent.  At many companies, the annual meeting is a waste of 
time because exhibitionists turn it into a sideshow.  Ours, 
however, is different.  It is informative for shareholders and 
fun for us. (At Berkshire's meetings, the exhibitionists are on 
the dais.) 

     This year our meeting will be on May 23, 1988 in Omaha, and 
we hope that you come.  The meeting provides the forum for you to 
ask any owner-related questions you may have, and we will keep 
answering until all (except those dealing with portfolio 
activities or other proprietary information) have been dealt 
with. 

     Last year we rented two buses - for $100 - to take 
shareholders interested in the trip to the Furniture Mart.  Your 
actions demonstrated your good judgment: You snapped up about 
$40,000 of bargains.  Mrs. B regards this expense/sales ratio as 
on the high side and attributes it to my chronic inattention to 
costs and generally sloppy managerial practices.  But, gracious 
as always, she has offered me another chance and we will again 
have buses available following the meeting.  Mrs. B says you must 
beat last year's sales figures, and I have told her she won't be 
disappointed. 

 
 
                                          Warren E. Buffett 
February 29, 1988                         Chairman of the Board 








Chairman's Letter - 1988



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.



To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:

     Our gain in net worth during 1988 was $569 million, or 
20.0%.  Over the last 24 years (that is, since present management 
took over), our per-share book value has grown from $19.46 to 
$2,974.52, or at a rate of 23.0% compounded annually.

     We’ve emphasized in past reports that what counts, however, 
is intrinsic business value - the figure, necessarily an 
estimate, indicating what all of our constituent businesses are 
worth.  By our calculations, Berkshire’s intrinsic business value 
significantly exceeds its book value.  Over the 24 years, 
business value has grown somewhat faster than book value; in 
1988, however, book value grew the faster, by a bit.

     Berkshire’s past rates of gain in both book value and 
business value were achieved under circumstances far different 
from those that now exist.  Anyone ignoring these differences 
makes the same mistake that a baseball manager would were he to 
judge the future prospects of a 42-year-old center fielder on the 
basis of his lifetime batting average.

     Important negatives affecting our prospects today are: (1) a 
less attractive stock market than generally existed over the past 
24 years; (2) higher corporate tax rates on most forms of 
investment income; (3) a far more richly-priced market for the 
acquisition of businesses; and (4) industry conditions for 
Capital Cities/ABC, Inc., GEICO Corporation, and The Washington 
Post Company - Berkshire’s three permanent investments, 
constituting about one-half of our net worth - that range from 
slightly to materially less favorable than those existing five to 
ten years ago.  All of these companies have superb management and 
strong properties.  But, at current prices, their upside 
potential looks considerably less exciting to us today than it 
did some years ago.

     The major problem we face, however, is a growing capital 
base.  You’ve heard that from us before, but this problem, like 
age, grows in significance each year. (And also, just as with 
age, it’s better to have this problem continue to grow rather 
than to have it “solved.”)

     Four years ago I told you that we needed profits of $3.9 
billion to achieve a 15% annual return over the decade then 
ahead.  Today, for the next decade, a 15% return demands profits 
of $10.3 billion.  That seems like a very big number to me and to 
Charlie Munger, Berkshire’s Vice Chairman and my partner. (Should 
that number indeed prove too big, Charlie will find himself, in 
future reports, retrospectively identified as the senior 
partner.)

     As a partial offset to the drag that our growing capital 
base exerts upon returns, we have a very important advantage now 
that we lacked 24 years ago.  Then, all our capital was tied up 
in a textile business with inescapably poor economic 
characteristics.  Today part of our capital is invested in some 
really exceptional businesses.

     Last year we dubbed these operations the Sainted Seven: 
Buffalo News, Fechheimer, Kirby, Nebraska Furniture Mart, Scott 
Fetzer Manufacturing Group, See’s, and World Book.  In 1988 the 
Saints came marching in.  You can see just how extraordinary 
their returns on capital were by examining the historical-cost 
financial statements on page 45, which combine the figures of the 
Sainted Seven with those of several smaller units.  With no 
benefit from financial leverage, this group earned about 67% on 
average equity capital.

     In most cases the remarkable performance of these units 
arises partially from an exceptional business franchise; in all 
cases an exceptional management is a vital factor.  The 
contribution Charlie and I make is to leave these managers alone.

     In my judgment, these businesses, in aggregate, will 
continue to produce superb returns.  We’ll need these: Without 
this help Berkshire would not have a chance of achieving our 15% 
goal.  You can be sure that our operating managers will deliver; 
the question mark in our future is whether Charlie and I can 
effectively employ the funds that they generate.

     In that respect, we took a step in the right direction early 
in 1989 when we purchased an 80% interest in Borsheim’s, a 
jewelry business in Omaha.  This purchase, described later in 
this letter, delivers exactly what we look for: an outstanding 
business run by people we like, admire, and trust.  It’s a great 
way to start the year.

Accounting Changes

     We have made a significant accounting change that was 
mandated for 1988, and likely will have another to make in 1990.  
When we move figures around from year to year, without any change 
in economic reality, one of our always-thrilling discussions of 
accounting is necessary.

     First, I’ll offer my customary disclaimer: Despite the 
shortcomings of generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), 
I would hate to have the job of devising a better set of rules.  
The limitations of the existing set, however, need not be 
inhibiting: CEOs are free to treat GAAP statements as a beginning 
rather than an end to their obligation to inform owners and 
creditors - and indeed they should.  After all, any manager of a 
subsidiary company would find himself in hot water if he reported 
barebones GAAP numbers that omitted key information needed by his 
boss, the parent corporation’s CEO.  Why, then, should the CEO 
himself withhold information vitally useful to his bosses - the 
shareholder-owners of the corporation?

     What needs to be reported is data - whether GAAP, non-GAAP, 
or extra-GAAP - that helps financially-literate readers answer 
three key questions: (1) Approximately how much is this company 
worth?  (2) What is the likelihood that it can meet its future 
obligations? and (3) How good a job are its managers doing, given 
the hand they have been dealt?

     In most cases, answers to one or more of these questions are 
somewhere between difficult and impossible to glean from the 
minimum GAAP presentation.  The business world is simply too 
complex for a single set of rules to effectively describe 
economic reality for all enterprises, particularly those 
operating in a wide variety of businesses, such as Berkshire.

     Further complicating the problem is the fact that many 
managements view GAAP not as a standard to be met, but as an 
obstacle to overcome.  Too often their accountants willingly 
assist them. (“How much,” says the client, “is two plus two?” 
Replies the cooperative accountant, “What number did you have in 
mind?”) Even honest and well-intentioned managements sometimes 
stretch GAAP a bit in order to present figures they think will 
more appropriately describe their performance.  Both the 
smoothing of earnings and the “big bath” quarter are “white lie” 
techniques employed by otherwise upright managements.

     Then there are managers who actively use GAAP to deceive and 
defraud.  They know that many investors and creditors accept GAAP 
results as gospel.  So these charlatans interpret the rules 
“imaginatively” and record business transactions in ways that 
technically comply with GAAP but actually display an economic 
illusion to the world.

     As long as investors - including supposedly sophisticated 
institutions - place fancy valuations on reported “earnings” that 
march steadily upward, you can be sure that some managers and 
promoters will exploit GAAP to produce such numbers, no matter 
what the truth may be.  Over the years, Charlie and I have 
observed many accounting-based frauds of staggering size.  Few of 
the perpetrators have been punished; many have not even been 
censured.  It has been far safer to steal large sums with a pen 
than small sums with a gun.

     Under one major change mandated by GAAP for 1988, we have 
been required to fully consolidate all our subsidiaries in our 
balance sheet and earnings statement.  In the past, Mutual 
Savings and Loan, and Scott Fetzer Financial (a credit company 
that primarily finances installment sales of World Book and Kirby 
products) were consolidated on a “one-line” basis.  That meant we 
(1) showed our equity in their combined net worths as a single-
entry asset on Berkshire’s consolidated balance sheet and (2) 
included our equity in their combined annual earnings as a 
single-line income entry in our consolidated statement of 
earnings.  Now the rules require that we consolidate each asset 
and liability of these companies in our balance sheet and each 
item of their income and expense in our earnings statement.

     This change underscores the need for companies also to 
report segmented data: The greater the number of economically 
diverse business operations lumped together in conventional 
financial statements, the less useful those presentations are and 
the less able investors are to answer the three questions posed 
earlier.  Indeed, the only reason we ever prepare consolidated 
figures at Berkshire is to meet outside requirements.  On the 
other hand, Charlie and I constantly study our segment data.

     Now that we are required to bundle more numbers in our GAAP 
statements, we have decided to publish additional supplementary 
information that we think will help you measure both business 
value and managerial performance. (Berkshire’s ability to 
discharge its obligations to creditors - the third question we 
listed - should be obvious, whatever statements you examine.) In 
these supplementary presentations, we will not necessarily follow 
GAAP procedures, or even corporate structure.  Rather, we will 
attempt to lump major business activities in ways that aid 
analysis but do not swamp you with detail.  Our goal is to give 
you important information in a form that we would wish to get it 
if our roles were reversed.

     On pages 41-47 we show separate combined balance sheets and 
earnings statements for: (1) our subsidiaries engaged in finance-
type operations, which are Mutual Savings and Scott Fetzer 
Financial; (2) our insurance operations, with their major 
investment positions itemized; (3) our manufacturing, publishing 
and retailing businesses, leaving aside certain non-operating 
assets and purchase-price accounting adjustments; and (4) an all-
other category that includes the non-operating assets (primarily 
marketable securities) held by the companies in (3) as well as 
various assets and debts of the Wesco and Berkshire parent 
companies.

     If you combine the earnings and the net worths of these four 
segments, you will derive totals matching those shown on our GAAP 
statements.  However, we want to emphasize that our new 
presentation does not fall within the purview of our auditors, 
who in no way bless it. (In fact, they may be horrified; I don’t 
want to ask.)

     I referred earlier to a major change in GAAP that is 
expected in 1990.  This change relates to the calculation of 
deferred taxes, and is both complicated and controversial - so 
much so that its imposition, originally scheduled for 1989, was 
postponed for a year.

     When implemented, the new rule will affect us in various 
ways.  Most important, we will be required to change the way we 
calculate our liability for deferred taxes on the unrealized 
appreciation of stocks held by our insurance companies.

     Right now, our liability is layered.  For the unrealized 
appreciation that dates back to 1986 and earlier years, $1.2 
billion, we have booked a 28% tax liability.  For the unrealized 
appreciation built up since, $600 million, the tax liability has 
been booked at 34%.  The difference reflects the increase in tax 
rates that went into effect in 1987.

     It now appears, however, that the new accounting rule will 
require us to establish the entire liability at 34% in 1990, 
taking the charge against our earnings.  Assuming no change in 
tax rates by 1990, this step will reduce our earnings in that 
year (and thereby our reported net worth) by $71 million.  The 
proposed rule will also affect other items on our balance sheet, 
but these changes will have only a minor impact on earnings and 
net worth.

     We have no strong views about the desirability of this 
change in calculation of deferred taxes.  We should point out, 
however, that neither a 28% nor a 34% tax liability precisely 
depicts economic reality at Berkshire since we have no plans to 
sell the stocks in which we have the great bulk of our gains.

     To those of you who are uninterested in accounting, I 
apologize for this dissertation.  I realize that many of you do 
not pore over our figures, but instead hold Berkshire primarily 
because you know that: (1) Charlie and I have the bulk of our 
money in Berkshire; (2) we intend to run things so that your 
gains or losses are in direct proportion to ours; and (3) the 
record has so far been satisfactory.  There is nothing 
necessarily wrong with this kind of “faith” approach to 
investing.  Other shareholders, however, prefer an “analysis” 
approach and we want to supply the information they need.  In our 
own investing, we search for situations in which both approaches 
give us the same answer.

Sources of Reported Earnings

     In addition to supplying you with our new four-sector 
accounting material, we will continue to list the major sources 
of Berkshire’s reported earnings just as we have in the past.

     In the following table, amortization of Goodwill and other 
major purchase-price accounting adjustments are not charged 
against the specific businesses to which they apply but are 
instead aggregated and shown separately.  This procedure lets you 
view the earnings of our businesses as they would have been 
reported had we not purchased them.  I’ve explained in past 
reports why this form of presentation seems to us to be more 
useful to investors and managers than the standard GAAP 
presentation, which makes purchase-price adjustments on a 
business-by-business basis.  The total net earnings we show in 
the table are, of course, identical to the GAAP total in our 
audited financial statements.

     Further information about these businesses is given in the 
Business Segment section on pages 32-34, and in the Management’s 
Discussion section on pages 36-40.  In these sections you also 
will find our segment earnings reported on a GAAP basis.  For 
information on Wesco’s businesses, I urge you to read Charlie 
Munger’s letter, which starts on page 52.  It contains the best 
description I have seen of the events that produced the present 
savings-and-loan crisis.  Also, take special note of Dave 
Hillstrom’s performance at Precision Steel Warehouse, a Wesco 
subsidiary.  Precision operates in an extremely competitive 
industry, yet Dave consistently achieves good returns on invested 
capital.  Though data is lacking to prove the point, I think it 
is likely that his performance, both in 1988 and years past, 
would rank him number one among his peers.

                                               (000s omitted) 
                                 ------------------------------------------
                                                         Berkshire's Share 
                                                          of Net Earnings 
                                                         (after taxes and 
                                   Pre-Tax Earnings     minority interests)
                                 -------------------    -------------------
                                   1988       1987        1988       1987 
                                 --------   --------    --------   --------
Operating Earnings:
  Insurance Group:
    Underwriting ............... $(11,081)  $(55,429)   $ (1,045)  $(20,696)
    Net Investment Income ......  231,250    152,483     197,779    136,658
  Buffalo News .................   42,429     39,410      25,462     21,304
  Fechheimer ...................   14,152     13,332       7,720      6,580
  Kirby ........................   26,891     22,408      17,842     12,891
  Nebraska Furniture Mart ......   18,439     16,837       9,099      7,554
  Scott Fetzer 
     Manufacturing Group .......   28,542     30,591      17,640     17,555
  See’s Candies ................   32,473     31,693      19,671     17,363
  Wesco - other than Insurance     16,133      6,209      10,650      4,978
  World Book ...................   27,890     25,745      18,021     15,136
  Amortization of Goodwill .....   (2,806)    (2,862)     (2,806)    (2,862)
  Other Purchase-Price 
     Accounting Charges ........   (6,342)    (5,546)     (7,340)    (6,544)
  Interest on Debt* ............  (35,613)   (11,474)    (23,212)    (5,905)
  Shareholder-Designated 
     Contributions .............   (4,966)    (4,938)     (3,217)    (2,963)
  Other ........................   41,059     23,217      27,177     13,697
                                 --------   --------    --------   --------
Operating Earnings .............  418,450    281,676     313,441    214,746
Sales of Securities ............  131,671     28,838      85,829     19,806
                                 --------   --------    --------   --------
Total Earnings - All Entities .. $550,121   $310,514    $399,270   $234,552

*Excludes interest expense of Scott Fetzer Financial Group.

     The earnings achieved by our operating businesses are 
superb, whether measured on an absolute basis or against those of 
their competitors.  For that we thank our operating managers: You 
and I are fortunate to be associated with them.

     At Berkshire, associations like these last a long time.  We 
do not remove superstars from our lineup merely because they have 
attained a specified age - whether the traditional 65, or the 95 
reached by Mrs. B on the eve of Hanukkah in 1988.  Superb 
managers are too scarce a resource to be discarded simply because 
a cake gets crowded with candles.  Moreover, our experience with 
newly-minted MBAs has not been that great.  Their academic 
records always look terrific and the candidates always know just 
what to say; but too often they are short on personal commitment 
to the company and general business savvy.  It’s difficult to 
teach a new dog old tricks.

     Here’s an update on our major non-insurance operations:

   o At Nebraska Furniture Mart, Mrs. B (Rose Blumkin) and her 
cart roll on and on.  She’s been the boss for 51 years, having 
started the business at 44 with $500. (Think what she would have 
done with $1,000!) With Mrs. B, old age will always be ten years 
away.

     The Mart, long the largest home furnishings store in the 
country, continues to grow.  In the fall, the store opened a 
detached 20,000 square foot Clearance Center, which expands our 
ability to offer bargains in all price ranges.

     Recently Dillard’s, one of the most successful department 
store operations in the country, entered the Omaha market.  In 
many of its stores, Dillard’s runs a full furniture department, 
undoubtedly doing well in this line.  Shortly before opening in 
Omaha, however, William Dillard, chairman of the company, 
announced that his new store would not sell furniture.  Said he, 
referring to NFM: “We don’t want to compete with them.  We think 
they are about the best there is.”

     At the Buffalo News we extol the value of advertising, and 
our policies at NFM prove that we practice what we preach.  Over 
the past three years NFM has been the largest ROP advertiser in 
the Omaha World-Herald. (ROP advertising is the kind printed in 
the paper, as contrasted to the preprinted-insert kind.) In no 
other major market, to my knowledge, is a home furnishings 
operation the leading customer of the newspaper.  At times, we 
also run large ads in papers as far away as Des Moines, Sioux 
City and Kansas City - always with good results.  It truly does 
pay to advertise, as long as you have something worthwhile to 
offer.

     Mrs. B’s son, Louie, and his boys, Ron and Irv, complete the 
winning Blumkin team.  It’s a joy to work with this family.  All 
its members have character that matches their extraordinary 
abilities.

   o Last year I stated unequivocally that pre-tax margins at 
The Buffalo News would fall in 1988.  That forecast would have 
proved correct at almost any other newspaper our size or larger.  
But Stan Lipsey - bless him - has managed to make me look 
foolish.

     Though we increased our prices a bit less than the industry 
average last year, and though our newsprint costs and wage rates 
rose in line with industry norms, Stan actually improved margins 
a tad.  No one in the newspaper business has a better managerial 
record.  He has achieved it, furthermore, while running a paper 
that gives readers an extraordinary amount of news.  We believe 
that our “newshole” percentage - the portion of the paper devoted 
to news - is bigger than that of any other dominant paper of our 
size or larger.  The percentage was 49.5% in 1988 versus 49.8% in 
1987.  We are committed to keeping it around 50%, whatever the 
level or trend of profit margins.

     Charlie and I have loved the newspaper business since we 
were youngsters, and we have had great fun with the News in the 
12 years since we purchased it.  We were fortunate to find Murray 
Light, a top-flight editor, on the scene when we arrived and he 
has made us proud of the paper ever since.

   o See’s Candies sold a record 25.1 million pounds in 1988.  
Prospects did not look good at the end of October, but excellent 
Christmas volume, considerably better than the record set in 
1987, turned the tide.

     As we’ve told you before, See’s business continues to become 
more Christmas-concentrated.  In 1988, the Company earned a 
record 90% of its full-year profits in December: $29 million out 
of $32.5 million before tax. (It’s enough to make you believe in 
Santa Claus.) December’s deluge of business produces a modest 
seasonal bulge in Berkshire’s corporate earnings.  Another small 
bulge occurs in the first quarter, when most World Book annuals 
are sold.

     Charlie and I put Chuck Huggins in charge of See’s about 
five minutes after we bought the company.  Upon reviewing his 
record, you may wonder what took us so long.

   o At Fechheimer, the Heldmans - Bob, George, Gary, Roger and 
Fred - are the Cincinnati counterparts of the Blumkins.  Neither 
furniture retailing nor uniform manufacturing has inherently 
attractive economics.  In these businesses, only exceptional 
managements can deliver high returns on invested capital.  And 
that’s exactly what the five Heldmans do. (As Mets announcer 
Ralph Kiner once said when comparing pitcher Steve Trout to his 
father, Dizzy Trout, the famous Detroit Tigers pitcher: “There’s 
a lot of heredity in that family.”)

     Fechheimer made a fairly good-sized acquisition in 1988.  
Charlie and I have such confidence in the business savvy of the 
Heldman family that we okayed the deal without even looking at 
it.  There are very few managements anywhere - including those 
running the top tier companies of the Fortune 500 - in which we 
would exhibit similar confidence.

     Because of both this acquisition and some internal growth, 
sales at Fechheimer should be up significantly in 1989.

   o All of the operations managed by Ralph Schey - World Book, 
Kirby, and The Scott Fetzer Manufacturing Group - performed 
splendidly in 1988.  Returns on the capital entrusted to Ralph 
continue to be exceptional.

     Within the Scott Fetzer Manufacturing Group, particularly 
fine progress was recorded at its largest unit, Campbell 
Hausfeld.  This company, the country’s leading producer of small 
and medium-sized air compressors, has more than doubled earnings 
since 1986.

     Unit sales at both Kirby and World Book were up 
significantly in 1988, with export business particularly strong.  
World Book became available in the Soviet Union in September, 
when that country’s largest American book store opened in Moscow.  
Ours is the only general encyclopedia offered at the store.

     Ralph’s personal productivity is amazing: In addition to 
running 19 businesses in superb fashion, he is active at The 
Cleveland Clinic, Ohio University, Case Western Reserve, and a 
venture capital operation that has spawned sixteen Ohio-based 
companies and resurrected many others.  Both Ohio and Berkshire 
are fortunate to have Ralph on their side.

Borsheim’s

     It was in 1983 that Berkshire purchased an 80% interest in 
The Nebraska Furniture Mart.  Your Chairman blundered then by 
neglecting to ask Mrs. B a question any schoolboy would have 
thought of: “Are there any more at home like you?” Last month I 
corrected the error: We are now 80% partners with another branch 
of the family.

     After Mrs. B came over from Russia in 1917, her parents and 
five siblings followed. (Her two other siblings had preceded 
her.) Among the sisters was Rebecca Friedman who, with her 
husband, Louis, escaped in 1922 to the west through Latvia in a 
journey as perilous as Mrs. B’s earlier odyssey to the east 
through Manchuria.  When the family members reunited in Omaha 
they had no tangible assets.  However, they came equipped with an 
extraordinary combination of brains, integrity, and enthusiasm 
for work - and that’s all they needed.  They have since proved 
themselves invincible.

     In 1948 Mr. Friedman purchased Borsheim’s, a small Omaha 
jewelry store.  He was joined in the business by his son, Ike, in 
1950 and, as the years went by, Ike’s son, Alan, and his sons-in-
law, Marvin Cohn and Donald Yale, came in also.

     You won’t be surprised to learn that this family brings to 
the jewelry business precisely the same approach that the 
Blumkins bring to the furniture business.  The cornerstone for 
both enterprises is Mrs. B’s creed: “Sell cheap and tell the 
truth.” Other fundamentals at both businesses are: (1) single 
store operations featuring huge inventories that provide 
customers with an enormous selection across all price ranges, (2) 
daily attention to detail by top management, (3) rapid turnover, 
(4) shrewd buying, and (5) incredibly low expenses.  The 
combination of the last three factors lets both stores offer 
everyday prices that no one in the country comes close to 
matching.

     Most people, no matter how sophisticated they are in other 
matters, feel like babes in the woods when purchasing jewelry.  
They can judge neither quality nor price.  For them only one rule 
makes sense: If you don’t know jewelry, know the jeweler.

     I can assure you that those who put their trust in Ike 
Friedman and his family will never be disappointed.  The way in 
which we purchased our interest in their business is the ultimate 
testimonial.  Borsheim’s had no audited financial statements; 
nevertheless, we didn’t take inventory, verify receivables or 
audit the operation in any way.  Ike simply told us what was so -
- and on that basis we drew up a one-page contract and wrote a 
large check.

     Business at Borsheim’s has mushroomed in recent years as the 
reputation of the Friedman family has spread.  Customers now come 
to the store from all over the country.  Among them have been 
some friends of mine from both coasts who thanked me later for 
getting them there.

     Borsheim’s new links to Berkshire will change nothing in the 
way this business is run.  All members of the Friedman family 
will continue to operate just as they have before; Charlie and I 
will stay on the sidelines where we belong.  And when we say “all 
members,” the words have real meaning.  Mr. and Mrs. Friedman, at 
88 and 87, respectively, are in the store daily.  The wives of 
Ike, Alan, Marvin and Donald all pitch in at busy times, and a 
fourth generation is beginning to learn the ropes.

     It is great fun to be in business with people you have long 
admired.  The Friedmans, like the Blumkins, have achieved success 
because they have deserved success.  Both families focus on 
what’s right for the customer and that, inevitably, works out 
well for them, also.  We couldn’t have better partners.

Insurance Operations

     Shown below is an updated version of our usual table 
presenting key figures for the insurance industry:

                              Statutory
          Yearly Change    Combined Ratio    Yearly Change   Inflation Rate 
           in Premiums   After Policyholder   in Incurred     Measured by 
           Written (%)        Dividends        Losses (%)   GNP Deflator (%)
          -------------  ------------------  -------------  ----------------
1981 .....     3.8              106.0             6.5              9.6
1982 .....     3.7              109.6             8.4              6.4
1983 .....     5.0              112.0             6.8              3.8
1984 .....     8.5              118.0            16.9              3.7
1985 .....    22.1              116.3            16.1              3.2
1986 .....    22.2              108.0            13.5              2.7
1987 .....     9.4              104.6             7.8              3.3
1988 (Est.)    3.9              105.4             4.2              3.6

Source: A.M. Best Co.

     The combined ratio represents total insurance costs (losses 
incurred plus expenses) compared to revenue from premiums: A 
ratio below 100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 
100 indicates a loss.  When the investment income that an insurer 
earns from holding on to policyholders’ funds (“the float”) is 
taken into account, a combined ratio in the 107-111 range 
typically produces an overall break-even result, exclusive of 
earnings on the funds provided by shareholders.

     For the reasons laid out in previous reports, we expect the 
industry’s incurred losses to grow by about 10% annually, even in 
years when general inflation runs considerably lower.  If premium 
growth meanwhile materially lags that 10% rate, underwriting 
losses will mount, though the industry’s tendency to underreserve 
when business turns bad may obscure their size for a time.  As 
the table shows, the industry’s underwriting loss grew in 1988.  
This trend is almost certain to continue - and probably will 
accelerate - for at least two more years.

     The property-casualty insurance industry is not only 
subnormally profitable, it is subnormally popular. (As Sam 
Goldwyn philosophized: “In life, one must learn to take the 
bitter with the sour.”) One of the ironies of business is that 
many relatively-unprofitable industries that are plagued by 
inadequate prices habitually find themselves beat upon by irate 
customers even while other, hugely profitable industries are 
spared complaints, no matter how high their prices.  

     Take the breakfast cereal industry, whose return on invested 
capital is more than double that of the auto insurance industry 
(which is why companies like Kellogg and General Mills sell at 
five times book value and most large insurers sell close to 
book).  The cereal companies regularly impose price increases, 
few of them related to a significant jump in their costs.  Yet 
not a peep is heard from consumers.  But when auto insurers raise 
prices by amounts that do not even match cost increases, 
customers are outraged.  If you want to be loved, it’s clearly 
better to sell high-priced corn flakes than low-priced auto 
insurance.

     The antagonism that the public feels toward the industry can 
have serious consequences: Proposition 103, a California 
initiative passed last fall, threatens to push auto insurance 
prices down sharply, even though costs have been soaring.  The 
price cut has been suspended while the courts review the 
initiative, but the resentment that brought on the vote has not 
been suspended: Even if the initiative is overturned, insurers 
are likely to find it tough to operate profitably in California. 
(Thank heavens the citizenry isn’t mad at bonbons: If Proposition 
103 applied to candy as well as insurance, See’s would be forced 
to sell its product for $5.76 per pound. rather than the $7.60 we 
charge - and would be losing money by the bucketful.)

     The immediate direct effects on Berkshire from the 
initiative are minor, since we saw few opportunities for profit 
in the rate structure that existed in California prior to the 
vote.  However, the forcing down of prices would seriously affect 
GEICO, our 44%-owned investee, which gets about 10% of its 
premium volume from California.  Even more threatening to GEICO 
is the possibility that similar pricing actions will be taken in 
other states, through either initiatives or legislation.

     If voters insist that auto insurance be priced below cost, 
it eventually must be sold by government.  Stockholders can 
subsidize policyholders for a short period, but only taxpayers 
can subsidize them over the long term.  At most property-casualty 
companies, socialized auto insurance would be no disaster for 
shareholders.  Because of the commodity characteristics of the 
industry, most insurers earn mediocre returns and therefore have 
little or no economic goodwill to lose if they are forced by 
government to leave the auto insurance business.  But GEICO, 
because it is a low-cost producer able to earn high returns on 
equity, has a huge amount of economic goodwill at risk.  In turn, 
so do we.

     At Berkshire, in 1988, our premium volume continued to fall, 
and in 1989 we will experience a large decrease for a special 
reason: The contract through which we receive 7% of the business 
of Fireman’s Fund expires on August 31.  At that time, we will 
return to Fireman’s Fund the unearned premiums we hold that 
relate to the contract.  This transfer of funds will show up in 
our “premiums written” account as a negative $85 million or so 
and will make our third-quarter figures look rather peculiar.  
However, the termination of this contract will not have a 
significant effect on profits.

     Berkshire’s underwriting results continued to be excellent 
in 1988.  Our combined ratio (on a statutory basis and excluding 
structured settlements and financial reinsurance) was 104.  
Reserve development was favorable for the second year in a row, 
after a string of years in which it was very unsatisfactory.  
Details on both underwriting and reserve development appear on 
pages 36-38.

     Our insurance volume over the next few years is likely to 
run very low, since business with a reasonable potential for 
profit will almost certainly be scarce.  So be it.  At Berkshire, 
we simply will not write policies at rates that carry the 
expectation of economic loss.  We encounter enough troubles when 
we expect a gain.

     Despite - or perhaps because of - low volume, our profit 
picture during the next few years is apt to be considerably 
brighter than the industry’s.  We are sure to have an exceptional 
amount of float compared to premium volume, and that augurs well 
for profits.  In 1989 and 1990 we expect our float/premiums 
ratio to be at least three times that of the typical 
property/casualty company.  Mike Goldberg, with special help from 
Ajit Jain, Dinos Iordanou, and the National Indemnity managerial 
team, has positioned us well in that respect.

     At some point - we don’t know when - we will be deluged with 
insurance business.  The cause will probably be some major 
physical or financial catastrophe.  But we could also experience 
an explosion in business, as we did in 1985, because large and 
increasing underwriting losses at other companies coincide with 
their recognition that they are far underreserved. in the 
meantime, we will retain our talented professionals, protect our 
capital, and try not to make major mistakes.

Marketable Securities

     In selecting marketable securities for our insurance 
companies, we can choose among five major categories: (1) long-
term common stock investments, (2) medium-term fixed-income 
securities, (3) long-term fixed-income securities, (4) short-term 
cash equivalents, and (5) short-term arbitrage commitments.

     We have no particular bias when it comes to choosing from 
these categories. We just continuously search among them for the 
highest after-tax returns as measured by “mathematical 
expectation,” limiting ourselves always to investment 
alternatives we think we understand.  Our criteria have nothing 
to do with maximizing immediately reportable earnings; our goal, 
rather, is to maximize eventual net worth.

   o Below we list our common stock holdings having a value over 
$100 million, not including arbitrage commitments, which will be 
discussed later.  A small portion of these investments belongs to 
subsidiaries of which Berkshire owns less than 100%.

   Shares   Company                                    Cost       Market
   ------   -------                                 ----------  ----------
                                                        (000s omitted) 
 3,000,000  Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. ..............  $517,500   $1,086,750
14,172,500  The Coca-Cola Company .................   592,540      632,448
 2,400,000  Federal Home Loan Mortgage 
               Corporation Preferred* .............    71,729      121,200
 6,850,000  GEICO Corporation .....................    45,713      849,400
 1,727,765  The Washington Post Company ...........     9,731      364,126

*Although  nominally a preferred stock, this security is 
 financially equivalent to a common stock.

     Our permanent holdings - Capital Cities/ABC, Inc., GEICO 
Corporation, and The Washington Post Company - remain unchanged.  
Also unchanged is our unqualified admiration of their 
managements: Tom Murphy and Dan Burke at Cap Cities, Bill Snyder 
and Lou Simpson at GEICO, and Kay Graham and Dick Simmons at The 
Washington Post.  Charlie and I appreciate enormously the talent 
and integrity these managers bring to their businesses.

     Their performance, which we have observed at close range, 
contrasts vividly with that of many CEOs, which we have 
fortunately observed from a safe distance.  Sometimes these CEOs 
clearly do not belong in their jobs; their positions, 
nevertheless, are usually secure.  The supreme irony of business 
management is that it is far easier for an inadequate CEO to keep 
his job than it is for an inadequate subordinate.

     If a secretary, say, is hired for a job that requires typing 
ability of at least 80 words a minute and turns out to be capable 
of only 50 words a minute, she will lose her job in no time.  
There is a logical standard for this job; performance is easily 
measured; and if you can’t make the grade, you’re out.  
Similarly, if new sales people fail to generate sufficient 
business quickly enough, they will be let go.  Excuses will not 
be accepted as a substitute for orders.

     However, a CEO who doesn’t perform is frequently carried 
indefinitely.  One reason is that performance standards for his 
job seldom exist.  When they do, they are often fuzzy or they may 
be waived or explained away, even when the performance shortfalls 
are major and repeated.  At too many companies, the boss shoots 
the arrow of managerial performance and then hastily paints the 
bullseye around the spot where it lands.

     Another important, but seldom recognized, distinction 
between the boss and the foot soldier is that the CEO has no 
immediate superior whose performance is itself getting measured.  
The sales manager who retains a bunch of lemons in his sales 
force will soon be in hot water himself.  It is in his immediate 
self-interest to promptly weed out his hiring mistakes.  
Otherwise, he himself may be weeded out.  An office manager who 
has hired inept secretaries faces the same imperative.

     But the CEO’s boss is a Board of Directors that seldom 
measures itself and is infrequently held to account for 
substandard corporate performance.  If the Board makes a mistake 
in hiring, and perpetuates that mistake, so what?  Even if the 
company is taken over because of the mistake, the deal will 
probably bestow substantial benefits on the outgoing Board 
members. (The bigger they are, the softer they fall.)

     Finally, relations between the Board and the CEO are 
expected to be congenial.  At board meetings, criticism of the 
CEO’s performance is often viewed as the social equivalent of 
belching.  No such inhibitions restrain the office manager from 
critically evaluating the substandard typist.

     These points should not be interpreted as a blanket 
condemnation of CEOs or Boards of Directors: Most are able and 
hard-working, and a number are truly outstanding.  But the 
management failings that Charlie and I have seen make us thankful 
that we are linked with the managers of our three permanent 
holdings.  They love their businesses, they think like owners, 
and they exude integrity and ability.

   o In 1988 we made major purchases of Federal Home Loan 
Mortgage Pfd. (“Freddie Mac”) and Coca Cola.  We expect to hold 
these securities for a long time.  In fact, when we own portions 
of outstanding businesses with outstanding managements, our 
favorite holding period is forever.  We are just the opposite of 
those who hurry to sell and book profits when companies perform 
well but who tenaciously hang on to businesses that disappoint.  
Peter Lynch aptly likens such behavior to cutting the flowers and 
watering the weeds.  Our holdings of Freddie Mac are the maximum 
allowed by law, and are extensively described by Charlie in his 
letter.  In our consolidated balance sheet these shares are 
carried at cost rather than market, since they are owned by 
Mutual Savings and Loan, a non-insurance subsidiary.

     We continue to concentrate our investments in a very few 
companies that we try to understand well.  There are only a 
handful of businesses about which we have strong long-term 
convictions.  Therefore, when we find such a business, we want to 
participate in a meaningful way.  We agree with Mae West: “Too 
much of a good thing can be wonderful.”

   o We reduced our holdings of medium-term tax-exempt bonds by 
about $100 million last year.  All of the bonds sold were 
acquired after August 7, 1986. When such bonds are held by 
property-casualty insurance companies, 15% of the “tax-exempt” 
interest earned is subject to tax.

     The $800 million position we still hold consists almost 
entirely of bonds “grandfathered” under the Tax Reform Act of 
1986, which means they are entirely tax-exempt.  Our sales 
produced a small profit and our remaining bonds, which have an 
average maturity of about six years, are worth modestly more than 
carrying value.

     Last year we described our holdings of short-term and 
intermediate-term bonds of Texaco, which was then in bankruptcy.  
During 1988, we sold practically all of these bonds at a pre-tax 
profit of about $22 million.  This sale explains close to $100 
million of the reduction in fixed-income securities on our 
balance sheet.

     We also told you last year about our holdings of another 
security whose predominant characteristics are those of an 
intermediate fixed-income issue: our $700 million position in 
Salomon Inc 9% convertible preferred.  This preferred has a 
sinking fund that will retire it in equal annual installments 
from 1995 to 1999.  Berkshire carries this holding at cost.  For 
reasons discussed by Charlie on page 69, the estimated market 
value of our holding has improved from moderately under cost at 
the end of last year to moderately over cost at 1988 year end.

     The close association we have had with John Gutfreund, CEO 
of Salomon, during the past year has reinforced our admiration 
for him.  But we continue to have no great insights about the 
near, intermediate or long-term economics of the investment 
banking business: This is not an industry in which it is easy to 
forecast future levels of profitability.  We continue to believe 
that our conversion privilege could well have important value 
over the life of our preferred.  However, the overwhelming 
portion of the preferred’s value resides in its fixed-income 
characteristics, not its equity characteristics.

   o We have not lost our aversion to long-term bonds.  We will 
become enthused about such securities only when we become 
enthused about prospects for long-term stability in the 
purchasing power of money.  And that kind of stability isn’t in 
the cards: Both society and elected officials simply have too 
many higher-ranking priorities that conflict with purchasing-
power stability.  The only long-term bonds we hold are those of 
Washington Public Power Supply Systems (WPPSS).  A few of our 
WPPSS bonds have short maturities and many others, because of 
their high coupons, are likely to be refunded and paid off in a 
few years.  Overall, our WPPSS holdings are carried on our 
balance sheet at $247 million and have a market value of about 
$352 million.

     We explained the reasons for our WPPSS purchases in the 1983 
annual report, and are pleased to tell you that this commitment 
has worked out about as expected.  At the time of purchase, most 
of our bonds were yielding around 17% after taxes and carried no 
ratings, which had been suspended.  Recently, the bonds were 
rated AA- by Standard & Poor’s.  They now sell at levels only 
slightly below those enjoyed by top-grade credits.

     In the 1983 report, we compared the economics of our WPPSS 
purchase to those involved in buying a business.  As it turned 
out, this purchase actually worked out better than did the 
general run of business acquisitions made in 1983, assuming both 
are measured on the basis of unleveraged, after tax returns 
achieved through 1988.  

     Our WPPSS experience, though pleasant, does nothing to alter 
our negative opinion about long-term bonds.  It only makes us 
hope that we run into some other large stigmatized issue, whose 
troubles have caused it to be significantly misappraised by the 
market.

Arbitrage

     In past reports we have told you that our insurance 
subsidiaries sometimes engage in arbitrage as an alternative to 
holding short-term cash equivalents. We prefer, of course, to 
make major long-term commitments, but we often have more cash 
than good ideas.  At such times, arbitrage sometimes promises 
much greater returns than Treasury Bills and, equally important, 
cools any temptation we may have to relax our standards for long-
term investments.  (Charlie’s sign off after we’ve talked about 
an arbitrage commitment is usually: “Okay, at least it will keep 
you out of bars.”)

     During 1988 we made unusually large profits from arbitrage, 
measured both by absolute dollars and rate of return.  Our pre-
tax gain was about $78 million on average invested funds of about 
$147 million.

     This level of activity makes some detailed discussion of 
arbitrage and our approach to it appropriate.  Once, the word 
applied only to the simultaneous purchase and sale of securities 
or foreign exchange in two different markets.  The goal was to 
exploit tiny price differentials that might exist between, say, 
Royal Dutch stock trading in guilders in Amsterdam, pounds in 
London, and dollars in New York.  Some people might call this 
scalping; it won’t surprise you that practitioners opted for the 
French term, arbitrage.

     Since World War I the definition of arbitrage - or “risk 
arbitrage,” as it is now sometimes called - has expanded to 
include the pursuit of profits from an announced corporate event 
such as sale of the company, merger, recapitalization, 
reorganization, liquidation, self-tender, etc.  In most cases the 
arbitrageur expects to profit regardless of the behavior of the 
stock market.  The major risk he usually faces instead is that 
the announced event won’t happen.  

     Some offbeat opportunities occasionally arise in the 
arbitrage field.  I participated in one of these when I was 24 
and working in New York for Graham-Newman Corp. Rockwood & Co., 
a Brooklyn based chocolate products company of limited 
profitability, had adopted LIFO inventory valuation in 1941 
when cocoa was selling for 5¢ per pound.  In 1954 a 
temporary shortage of cocoa caused the price to soar to over 
60¢.  Consequently Rockwood wished to unload its valuable 
inventory - quickly, before the price dropped.  But if the cocoa 
had simply been sold off, the company would have owed close to 
a 50% tax on the proceeds.

     The 1954 Tax Code came to the rescue.  It contained an 
arcane provision that eliminated the tax otherwise due on LIFO 
profits if inventory was distributed to shareholders as part of a 
plan reducing the scope of a corporation’s business.  Rockwood 
decided to terminate one of its businesses, the sale of cocoa 
butter, and said 13 million pounds of its cocoa bean inventory 
was attributable to that activity.  Accordingly, the company 
offered to repurchase its stock in exchange for the cocoa beans 
it no longer needed, paying 80 pounds of beans for each share.  

     For several weeks I busily bought shares, sold beans, and 
made periodic stops at Schroeder Trust to exchange stock 
certificates for warehouse receipts.  The profits were good and 
my only expense was subway tokens.

     The architect of Rockwood’s restructuring was an unknown, 
but brilliant Chicagoan, Jay Pritzker, then 32.  If you’re 
familiar with Jay’s subsequent record, you won’t be surprised to 
hear the action worked out rather well for Rockwood’s continuing 
shareholders also.  From shortly before the tender until shortly 
after it, Rockwood stock appreciated from 15 to 100, even though 
the company was experiencing large operating losses.  Sometimes 
there is more to stock valuation than price-earnings ratios.

     In recent years, most arbitrage operations have involved 
takeovers, friendly and unfriendly.  With acquisition fever 
rampant, with anti-trust challenges almost non-existent, and with 
bids often ratcheting upward, arbitrageurs have prospered 
mightily.  They have not needed special talents to do well; the 
trick, a la Peter Sellers in the movie, has simply been “Being 
There.” In Wall Street the old proverb has been reworded: “Give a 
man a fish and you feed him for a day.  Teach him how to 
arbitrage and you feed him forever.” (If, however, he studied at 
the Ivan Boesky School of Arbitrage, it may be a state 
institution that supplies his meals.)

     To evaluate arbitrage situations you must answer four 
questions: (1) How likely is it that the promised event will 
indeed occur? (2) How long will your money be tied up? (3) What 
chance is there that something still better will transpire - a 
competing takeover bid, for example? and (4) What will happen if 
the event does not take place because of anti-trust action, 
financing glitches, etc.?

     Arcata Corp., one of our more serendipitous arbitrage 
experiences, illustrates the twists and turns of the business.  
On September 28, 1981 the directors of Arcata agreed in principle 
to sell the company to Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts & Co. (KKR), 
then and now a major leveraged-buy out firm.  Arcata was in the 
printing and forest products businesses and had one other thing 
going for it: In 1978 the U.S. Government had taken title to 
10,700 acres of Arcata timber, primarily old-growth redwood, to 
expand Redwood National Park.  The government had paid $97.9 
million, in several installments, for this acreage, a sum Arcata 
was contesting as grossly inadequate.  The parties also disputed 
the interest rate that should apply to the period between the 
taking of the property and final payment for it.  The enabling 
legislation stipulated 6% simple interest; Arcata argued for a 
much higher and compounded rate.

     Buying a company with a highly-speculative, large-sized 
claim in litigation creates a negotiating problem, whether the 
claim is on behalf of or against the company.  To solve this 
problem, KKR offered $37.00 per Arcata share plus two-thirds of 
any additional amounts paid by the government for the redwood 
lands.

     Appraising this arbitrage opportunity, we had to ask 
ourselves whether KKR would consummate the transaction since, 
among other things, its offer was contingent upon its obtaining 
“satisfactory financing.” A clause of this kind is always 
dangerous for the seller: It offers an easy exit for a suitor 
whose ardor fades between proposal and marriage.  However, we 
were not particularly worried about this possibility because 
KKR’s past record for closing had been good.

     We also had to ask ourselves what would happen if the KKR 
deal did fall through, and here we also felt reasonably 
comfortable: Arcata’s management and directors had been shopping 
the company for some time and were clearly determined to sell.  
If KKR went away, Arcata would likely find another buyer, though 
of course, the price might be lower.

     Finally, we had to ask ourselves what the redwood claim 
might be worth.  Your Chairman, who can’t tell an elm from an 
oak, had no trouble with that one: He coolly evaluated the claim 
at somewhere between zero and a whole lot.

     We started buying Arcata stock, then around $33.50, on 
September 30 and in eight weeks purchased about 400,000 shares, 
or 5% of the company.  The initial announcement said that the 
$37.00 would be paid in January, 1982.  Therefore, if everything 
had gone perfectly, we would have achieved an annual rate of 
return of about 40% - not counting the redwood claim, which would 
have been frosting.

     All did not go perfectly.  In December it was announced that 
the closing would be delayed a bit.  Nevertheless, a definitive 
agreement was signed on January 4. Encouraged, we raised our 
stake, buying at around $38.00 per share and increasing our 
holdings to 655,000 shares, or over 7% of the company.  Our 
willingness to pay up - even though the closing had been 
postponed - reflected our leaning toward “a whole lot” rather 
than “zero” for the redwoods.

     Then, on February 25 the lenders said they were taking a 
“second look” at financing terms “ in view of the severely 
depressed housing industry and its impact on Arcata’s outlook.” 
The stockholders’ meeting was postponed again, to April.  An 
Arcata spokesman said he “did not think the fate of the 
acquisition itself was imperiled.” When arbitrageurs hear such 
reassurances, their minds flash to the old saying: “He lied like 
a finance minister on the eve of devaluation.”

     On March 12 KKR said its earlier deal wouldn’t work, first 
cutting its offer to $33.50, then two days later raising it to 
$35.00. On March 15, however, the directors turned this bid down 
and accepted another group’s offer of $37.50 plus one-half of any 
redwood recovery.  The shareholders okayed the deal, and the 
$37.50 was paid on June 4.

     We received $24.6 million versus our cost of $22.9 million; 
our average holding period was close to six months.  Considering 
the trouble this transaction encountered, our 15% annual rate of 
return excluding any value for the redwood claim - was more than 
satisfactory.

     But the best was yet to come.  The trial judge appointed two 
commissions, one to look at the timber’s value, the other to 
consider the interest rate questions.  In January 1987, the first 
commission said the redwoods were worth $275.7 million and the 
second commission recommended a compounded, blended rate of 
return working out to about 14%.

     In August 1987 the judge upheld these conclusions, which 
meant a net amount of about $600 million would be due Arcata.  
The government then appealed.  In 1988, though, before this 
appeal was heard, the claim was settled for $519 million.  
Consequently, we received an additional $29.48 per share, or 
about $19.3 million.  We will get another $800,000 or so in 1989.

     Berkshire’s arbitrage activities differ from those of many 
arbitrageurs.  First, we participate in only a few, and usually 
very large, transactions each year.  Most practitioners buy into 
a great many deals perhaps 50 or more per year.  With that many 
irons in the fire, they must spend most of their time monitoring 
both the progress of deals and the market movements of the 
related stocks.  This is not how Charlie nor I wish to spend our 
lives. (What’s the sense in getting rich just to stare at a 
ticker tape all day?)

     Because we diversify so little, one particularly profitable 
or unprofitable transaction will affect our yearly result from 
arbitrage far more than it will the typical arbitrage operation.  
So far, Berkshire has not had a really bad experience.  But we 
will - and when it happens we’ll report the gory details to you.

     The other way we differ from some arbitrage operations is 
that we participate only in transactions that have been publicly 
announced.  We do not trade on rumors or try to guess takeover 
candidates.  We just read the newspapers, think about a few of 
the big propositions, and go by our own sense of probabilities.

     At yearend, our only major arbitrage position was 3,342,000 
shares of RJR Nabisco with a cost of $281.8 million and a market 
value of $304.5 million.  In January we increased our holdings to 
roughly four million shares and in February we eliminated our 
position.  About three million shares were accepted when we 
tendered our holdings to KKR, which acquired RJR, and the 
returned shares were promptly sold in the market.  Our pre-tax 
profit was a better-than-expected $64 million.

     Earlier, another familiar face turned up in the RJR bidding 
contest: Jay Pritzker, who was part of a First Boston group that 
made a tax-oriented offer.  To quote Yogi Berra; “It was deja vu 
all over again.”

     During most of the time when we normally would have been 
purchasers of RJR, our activities in the stock were restricted 
because of Salomon’s participation in a bidding group.  
Customarily, Charlie and I, though we are directors of Salomon, 
are walled off from information about its merger and acquisition 
work.  We have asked that it be that way: The information would 
do us no good and could, in fact, occasionally inhibit 
Berkshire’s arbitrage operations.

     However, the unusually large commitment that Salomon 
proposed to make in the RJR deal required that all directors be 
fully informed and involved.  Therefore, Berkshire’s purchases of 
RJR were made at only two times: first, in the few days 
immediately following management’s announcement of buyout plans, 
before Salomon became involved; and considerably later, after the 
RJR board made its decision in favor of KKR.  Because we could 
not buy at other times, our directorships cost Berkshire 
significant money.

     Considering Berkshire’s good results in 1988, you might 
expect us to pile into arbitrage during 1989.  Instead, we expect 
to be on the sidelines.

     One pleasant reason is that our cash holdings are down - 
because our position in equities that we expect to hold for a 
very long time is substantially up.  As regular readers of this 
report know, our new commitments are not based on a judgment 
about short-term prospects for the stock market.  Rather, they 
reflect an opinion about long-term business prospects for 
specific companies.  We do not have, never have had, and never 
will have an opinion about where the stock market, interest 
rates, or business activity will be a year from now.

     Even if we had a lot of cash we probably would do little in 
arbitrage in 1989.  Some extraordinary excesses have developed in 
the takeover field.  As Dorothy says: “Toto, I have a feeling 
we’re not in Kansas any more.”

     We have no idea how long the excesses will last, nor do we 
know what will change the attitudes of government, lender and 
buyer that fuel them.  But we do know that the less the prudence 
with which others conduct their affairs, the greater the prudence 
with which we should conduct our own affairs.  We have no desire 
to arbitrage transactions that reflect the unbridled - and, in 
our view, often unwarranted - optimism of both buyers and 
lenders.  In our activities, we will heed the wisdom of Herb 
Stein: “If something can’t go on forever, it will end.”

Efficient Market Theory

     The preceding discussion about arbitrage makes a small 
discussion of “efficient market theory” (EMT) also seem relevant.  
This doctrine became highly fashionable - indeed, almost holy 
scripture in academic circles during the 1970s.  Essentially, it 
said that analyzing stocks was useless because all public 
information about them was appropriately reflected in their 
prices.  In other words, the market always knew everything.  As a 
corollary, the professors who taught EMT said that someone 
throwing darts at the stock tables could select a stock portfolio 
having prospects just as good as one selected by the brightest, 
most hard-working security analyst.  Amazingly, EMT was embraced 
not only by academics, but by many investment professionals and 
corporate managers as well.  Observing correctly that the market 
was frequently efficient, they went on to conclude incorrectly 
that it was always efficient.  The difference between these 
propositions is night and day.

     In my opinion, the continuous 63-year arbitrage experience 
of Graham-Newman Corp. Buffett Partnership, and Berkshire 
illustrates just how foolish EMT is. (There’s plenty of other 
evidence, also.) While at Graham-Newman, I made a study of its 
earnings from arbitrage during the entire 1926-1956 lifespan of 
the company.  Unleveraged returns averaged 20% per year.  
Starting in 1956, I applied Ben Graham’s arbitrage principles, 
first at Buffett Partnership and then Berkshire.  Though I’ve not 
made an exact calculation, I have done enough work to know that 
the 1956-1988 returns averaged well over 20%. (Of course, I 
operated in an environment far more favorable than Ben’s; he had 
1929-1932 to contend with.)

     All of the conditions are present that are required for a 
fair test of portfolio performance: (1) the three organizations 
traded hundreds of different securities while building this 63-
year record; (2) the results are not skewed by a few fortunate 
experiences; (3) we did not have to dig for obscure facts or 
develop keen insights about products or managements - we simply 
acted on highly-publicized events; and (4) our arbitrage 
positions were a clearly identified universe - they have not been 
selected by hindsight.

     Over the 63 years, the general market delivered just under a 
10% annual return, including dividends.  That means $1,000 would 
have grown to $405,000 if all income had been reinvested.  A 20% 
rate of return, however, would have produced $97 million.  That 
strikes us as a statistically-significant differential that 
might, conceivably, arouse one’s curiosity.

     Yet proponents of the theory have never seemed interested in 
discordant evidence of this type.  True, they don’t talk quite as 
much about their theory today as they used to.  But no one, to my 
knowledge, has ever said he was wrong, no matter how many 
thousands of students he has sent forth misinstructed.  EMT, 
moreover, continues to be an integral part of the investment 
curriculum at major business schools.  Apparently, a reluctance 
to recant, and thereby to demystify the priesthood, is not 
limited to theologians.

     Naturally the disservice done students and gullible 
investment professionals who have swallowed EMT has been an 
extraordinary service to us and other followers of Graham.  In 
any sort of a contest - financial, mental, or physical - it’s an 
enormous advantage to have opponents who have been taught that 
it’s useless to even try.  From a selfish point of view, 
Grahamites should probably endow chairs to ensure the perpetual 
teaching of EMT.

     All this said, a warning is appropriate.  Arbitrage has 
looked easy recently.  But this is not a form of investing that 
guarantees profits of 20% a year or, for that matter, profits of 
any kind.  As noted, the market is reasonably efficient much of 
the time: For every arbitrage opportunity we seized in that 63-
year period, many more were foregone because they seemed 
properly-priced.

     An investor cannot obtain superior profits from stocks by 
simply committing to a specific investment category or style.  He 
can earn them only by carefully evaluating facts and continuously 
exercising discipline.  Investing in arbitrage situations, per 
se, is no better a strategy than selecting a portfolio by 
throwing darts.

New York Stock Exchange Listing

     Berkshire’s shares were listed on the New York Stock 
Exchange on November 29, 1988.  On pages 50-51 we reproduce the 
letter we sent to shareholders concerning the listing.

     Let me clarify one point not dealt with in the letter: 
Though our round lot for trading on the NYSE is ten shares, any 
number of shares from one on up can be bought or sold.

     As the letter explains, our primary goal in listing was to 
reduce transaction costs, and we believe this goal is being 
achieved.  Generally, the spread between the bid and asked price 
on the NYSE has been well below the spread that prevailed in the 
over-the-counter market.

     Henderson Brothers, Inc., the specialist in our shares, is 
the oldest continuing specialist firm on the Exchange; its 
progenitor, William Thomas Henderson, bought his seat for $500 on 
September 8, 1861. (Recently, seats were selling for about 
$625,000.) Among the 54 firms acting as specialists, HBI ranks 
second in number of stocks assigned, with 83.  We were pleased 
when Berkshire was allocated to HBI, and have been delighted with 
the firm’s performance.  Jim Maguire, Chairman of HBI, personally 
manages the trading in Berkshire, and we could not be in better 
hands.

     In two respects our goals probably differ somewhat from 
those of most listed companies.  First, we do not want to 
maximize the price at which Berkshire shares trade.  We wish 
instead for them to trade in a narrow range centered at intrinsic 
business value (which we hope increases at a reasonable - or, 
better yet, unreasonable - rate).  Charlie and I are bothered as 
much by significant overvaluation as significant undervaluation.  
Both extremes will inevitably produce results for many 
shareholders that will differ sharply from Berkshire’s business 
results.  If our stock price instead consistently mirrors 
business value, each of our shareholders will receive an 
investment result that roughly parallels the business results of 
Berkshire during his holding period.

     Second, we wish for very little trading activity.  If we ran 
a private business with a few passive partners, we would be 
disappointed if those partners, and their replacements, 
frequently wanted to leave the partnership.  Running a public 
company, we feel the same way.

     Our goal is to attract long-term owners who, at the time of 
purchase, have no timetable or price target for sale but plan 
instead to stay with us indefinitely.  We don’t understand the 
CEO who wants lots of stock activity, for that can be achieved 
only if many of his owners are constantly exiting.  At what other 
organization - school, club, church, etc. - do leaders cheer when 
members leave? (However, if there were a broker whose livelihood 
depended upon the membership turnover in such organizations, you 
could be sure that there would be at least one proponent of 
activity, as in: “There hasn’t been much going on in Christianity 
for a while; maybe we should switch to Buddhism next week.“)

     Of course, some Berkshire owners will need or want to sell 
from time to time, and we wish for good replacements who will pay 
them a fair price.  Therefore we try, through our policies, 
performance, and communications, to attract new shareholders who 
understand our operations, share our time horizons, and measure 
us as we measure ourselves.  If we can continue to attract this 
sort of shareholder - and, just as important, can continue to be 
uninteresting to those with short-term or unrealistic 
expectations - Berkshire shares should consistently sell at 
prices reasonably related to business value.

David L. Dodd

     Dave Dodd, my friend and teacher for 38 years, died last 
year at age 93.  Most of you don’t know of him.  Yet any long-
time shareholder of Berkshire is appreciably wealthier because of 
the indirect influence he had upon our company.

     Dave spent a lifetime teaching at Columbia University, and 
he co-authored Security Analysis with Ben Graham.  From the 
moment I arrived at Columbia, Dave personally encouraged and 
educated me; one influence was as important as the other.  
Everything he taught me, directly or through his book, made 
sense.  Later, through dozens of letters, he continued my 
education right up until his death.

     I have known many professors of finance and investments but 
I have never seen any, except for Ben Graham, who was the match 
of Dave.  The proof of his talent is the record of his students: 
No other teacher of investments has sent forth so many who have 
achieved unusual success.

     When students left Dave’s classroom, they were equipped to 
invest intelligently for a lifetime because the principles he 
taught were simple, sound, useful, and enduring.  Though these 
may appear to be unremarkable virtues, the teaching of principles 
embodying them has been rare.

     It’s particularly impressive that Dave could practice as 
well as preach. just as Keynes became wealthy by applying his 
academic ideas to a very small purse, so, too, did Dave.  Indeed, 
his financial performance far outshone that of Keynes, who began 
as a market-timer (leaning on business and credit-cycle theory) 
and converted, after much thought, to value investing.  Dave was 
right from the start.

     In Berkshire’s investments, Charlie and I have employed the 
principles taught by Dave and Ben Graham.  Our prosperity is the 
fruit of their intellectual tree.

Miscellaneous

     We hope to buy more businesses that are similar to the ones 
we have, and we can use some help.  If you have a business that 
fits the following criteria, call me or, preferably, write.

     Here’s what we’re looking for:

     (1) large purchases (at least $10 million of after-tax 
         earnings),

     (2) demonstrated consistent earning power (future projections 
         are of little interest to us, nor are “turnaround” 
         situations),

     (3) businesses earning good returns on equity while employing 
         little or no debt,

     (4) management in place (we can’t supply it),

     (5) simple businesses (if there’s lots of technology, we won’t 
         understand it),

     (6) an offering price (we don’t want to waste our time or that 
         of the seller by talking, even preliminarily, about a 
         transaction when price is unknown).

     We will not engage in unfriendly takeovers.  We can promise 
complete confidentiality and a very fast answer - customarily 
within five minutes - as to whether we’re interested.  We prefer 
to buy for cash, but will consider issuing stock when we receive 
as much in intrinsic business value as we give.

     Our favorite form of purchase is one fitting the Blumkin-
Friedman-Heldman mold.  In cases like these, the company’s owner-
managers wish to generate significant amounts of cash, sometimes 
for themselves, but often for their families or inactive 
shareholders.  However, these managers also wish to remain 
significant owners who continue to run their companies just as 
they have in the past.  We think we offer a particularly good fit 
for owners with these objectives and invite potential sellers to 
check us out by contacting people with whom we have done business 
in the past.

     Charlie and I frequently get approached about acquisitions 
that don’t come close to meeting our tests: We’ve found that if 
you advertise an interest in buying collies, a lot of people will 
call hoping to sell you their cocker spaniels.  Our interest in 
new ventures, turnarounds, or auction-like sales can best be 
expressed by another Goldwynism: “Please include me out.”

     Besides being interested in the purchase of businesses as 
described above, we are also interested in the negotiated 
purchase of large, but not controlling, blocks of stock 
comparable to those we hold in Cap Cities and Salomon.  We have a 
special interest in purchasing convertible preferreds as a long-
term investment, as we did at Salomon.

                             *  *  *

     We received some good news a few weeks ago: Standard & 
Poor’s raised our credit rating to AAA, which is the highest 
rating it bestows.  Only 15 other U.S. industrial or property-
casualty companies are rated AAA, down from 28 in 1980.

     Corporate bondholders have taken their lumps in the past few 
years from “event risk.” This term refers to the overnight 
degradation of credit that accompanies a heavily-leveraged 
purchase or recapitalization of a business whose financial 
policies, up to then, had been conservative.  In a world of 
takeovers inhabited by few owner-managers, most corporations 
present such a risk.  Berkshire does not.  Charlie and I promise 
bondholders the same respect we afford shareholders.

                             *  *  *

     About 97.4% of all eligible shares participated in 
Berkshire’s 1988 shareholder-designated contributions program.  
Contributions made through the program were $5 million, and 2,319 
charities were recipients.  If we achieve reasonable business 
results, we plan to increase the per-share contributions in 1989.

     We urge new shareholders to read the description of our 
shareholder-designated contributions program that appears on 
pages 48-49.  If you wish to participate in future programs, we 
strongly urge that you immediately make sure your shares are 
registered in the name of the actual owner, not in the nominee 
name of a broker, bank or depository.  Shares not so registered 
on September 30, 1989 will be ineligible for the 1989 program.

                             *  *  *

     Berkshire’s annual meeting will be held in Omaha on Monday, 
April 24, 1989, and I hope you will come.  The meeting provides 
the forum for you to ask any owner-related questions you may 
have, and we will keep answering until all (except those dealing 
with portfolio activities or other proprietary information) have 
been dealt with.

     After the meeting we will have several buses available to 
take you to visit Mrs. B at The Nebraska Furniture Mart and Ike 
Friedman at Borsheim’s.  Be prepared for bargains.

     Out-of-towners may prefer to arrive early and visit Mrs. B 
during the Sunday store hours of noon to five. (These Sunday 
hours seem ridiculously short to Mrs. B, who feels they scarcely 
allow her time to warm up; she much prefers the days on which the 
store remains open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.) Borsheims, however, is 
not open on Sunday.

     Ask Mrs. B the secret of her astonishingly low carpet 
prices.  She will confide to you - as she does to everyone - how 
she does it: “I can sell so cheap ‘cause I work for this dummy 
who doesn’t know anything about carpet.”


                                         Warren E. Buffett
February 28, 1989                        Chairman of the Board








Chairman's Letter - 1989



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.



To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:

     Our gain in net worth during 1989 was $1.515 billion, or 
44.4%. Over the last 25 years (that is, since present management 
took over) our per-share book value has grown from $19.46 to 
$4,296.01, or at a rate of 23.8% compounded annually.

     What counts, however, is intrinsic value - the figure 
indicating what all of our constituent businesses are rationally 
worth. With perfect foresight, this number can be calculated by 
taking all future cash flows of a business - in and out - and 
discounting them at prevailing interest rates. So valued, all 
businesses, from manufacturers of buggy whips to operators of 
cellular phones, become economic equals. 

     Back when Berkshire's book value was $19.46, intrinsic 
value was somewhat less because the book value was entirely tied 
up in a textile business not worth the figure at which it was 
carried. Now most of our businesses are worth far more than their 
carrying values. This agreeable evolution from a discount to a 
premium means that Berkshire's intrinsic business value has 
compounded at a rate that somewhat exceeds our 23.8% annual 
growth in book value.

     The rear-view mirror is one thing; the windshield is 
another. A large portion of our book value is represented by 
equity securities that, with minor exceptions, are carried on our 
balance sheet at current market values. At yearend these 
securities were valued at higher prices, relative to their own 
intrinsic business values, than has been the case in the past. 
One reason is the buoyant 1989 stock market. More important, the 
virtues of these businesses have been widely recognized. Whereas 
once their stock prices were inappropriately low, they are not 
now.

     We will keep most of our major holdings, regardless of how 
they are priced relative to intrinsic business value. This 'til-
death-do-us-part attitude, combined with the full prices these 
holdings command, means that they cannot be expected to push up 
Berkshire's value in the future as sharply as in the past. In 
other words, our performance to date has benefited from a double-
dip: (1) the exceptional gains in intrinsic value that our 
portfolio companies have achieved; (2) the additional bonus we 
realized as the market appropriately "corrected" the prices of 
these companies, raising their valuations in relation to those of 
the average business. We will continue to benefit from good gains 
in business value that we feel confident our portfolio companies 
will make. But our "catch-up" rewards have been realized, which 
means we'll have to settle for a single-dip in the future.

     We face another obstacle: In a finite world, high growth 
rates must self-destruct. If the base from which the growth is 
taking place is tiny, this law may not operate for a time. But 
when the base balloons, the party ends: A high growth rate 
eventually forges its own anchor.

     Carl Sagan has entertainingly described this phenomenon, 
musing about the destiny of bacteria that reproduce by dividing 
into two every 15 minutes. Says Sagan: "That means four doublings 
an hour, and 96 doublings a day. Although a bacterium weighs only 
about a trillionth of a gram, its descendants, after a day of 
wild asexual abandon, will collectively weigh as much as a 
mountain...in two days, more than the sun - and before very long, 
everything in the universe will be made of bacteria." Not to 
worry, says Sagan:  Some obstacle always impedes this kind of 
exponential growth. "The bugs run out of food, or they poison 
each other, or they are shy about reproducing in public."  

     Even on bad days, Charlie Munger (Berkshire's Vice Chairman 
and my partner) and I do not think of Berkshire as a bacterium. 
Nor, to our unending sorrow, have we found a way to double its 
net worth every 15 minutes. Furthermore, we are not the least bit 
shy about reproducing - financially - in public. Nevertheless, 
Sagan's observations apply. From Berkshire's present base of $4.9 
billion in net worth, we will find it much more difficult to 
average 15% annual growth in book value than we did to average 
23.8% from the $22 million we began with.

Taxes

     Our 1989 gain of $1.5 billion was achieved after we took a 
charge of about $712 million for income taxes. In addition, 
Berkshire's share of the income taxes paid by its five major 
investees totaled about $175 million. 

     Of this year's tax charge, about $172 million will be paid 
currently; the remainder, $540 million, is deferred. Almost all 
of the deferred portion relates to the 1989 increase in 
unrealized profits in our common stock holdings. Against this 
increase, we have reserved a 34% tax.

     We also carry reserves at that rate against all unrealized 
profits generated in 1987 and 1988. But, as we explained last 
year, the unrealized gains we amassed before 1987 - about $1.2 
billion - carry reserves booked at the 28% tax rate that then 
prevailed. 

     A new accounting rule is likely to be adopted that will 
require companies to reserve against all gains at the current tax 
rate, whatever it may be. With the rate at 34%, such a rule would 
increase our deferred tax liability, and decrease our net worth, 
by about $71 million - the result of raising the reserve on our 
pre-1987 gain by six percentage points. Because the proposed rule 
has sparked widespread controversy and its final form is unclear, 
we have not yet made this change.

     As you can see from our balance sheet on page 27, we would 
owe taxes of more than $1.1 billion were we to sell all of our 
securities at year-end market values. Is this $1.1 billion 
liability equal, or even similar, to a $1.1 billion liability 
payable to a trade creditor 15 days after the end of the year?  
Obviously not - despite the fact that both items have exactly the 
same effect on audited net worth, reducing it by $1.1 billion.

     On the other hand, is this liability for deferred taxes a 
meaningless accounting fiction because its payment can be 
triggered only by the sale of stocks that, in very large part, we 
have no intention of selling?  Again, the answer is no. 

     In economic terms, the liability resembles an interest-free 
loan from the U.S. Treasury that comes due only at our election 
(unless, of course, Congress moves to tax gains before they are 
realized). This "loan" is peculiar in other respects as well: It 
can be used only to finance the ownership of the particular, 
appreciated stocks and it fluctuates in size - daily as market 
prices change and periodically if tax rates change. In effect, 
this deferred tax liability is equivalent to a very large 
transfer tax that is payable only if we elect to move from one 
asset to another. Indeed, we sold some relatively small holdings 
in 1989, incurring about $76 million of "transfer" tax on $224 
million of gains.

     Because of the way the tax law works, the Rip Van Winkle 
style of investing that we favor - if successful - has an 
important mathematical edge over a more frenzied approach. Let's 
look at an extreme comparison.

     Imagine that Berkshire had only $1, which we put in a 
security that doubled by yearend and was then sold. Imagine 
further that we used the after-tax proceeds to repeat this 
process in each of the next 19 years, scoring a double each time. 
At the end of the 20 years, the 34% capital gains tax that we 
would have paid on the profits from each sale would have 
delivered about $13,000 to the government and we would be left 
with about $25,250. Not bad. If, however, we made a single 
fantastic investment that itself doubled 20 times during the 20 
years, our dollar would grow to $1,048,576. Were we then to cash 
out, we would pay a 34% tax of roughly $356,500 and be left with 
about $692,000. 

     The sole reason for this staggering difference in results 
would be the timing of tax payments. Interestingly, the 
government would gain from Scenario 2 in exactly the same 27:1 
ratio as we - taking in taxes of $356,500 vs. $13,000 - though, 
admittedly, it would have to wait for its money.

     We have not, we should stress, adopted our strategy 
favoring long-term investment commitments because of these 
mathematics. Indeed, it is possible we could earn greater after-
tax returns by moving rather frequently from one investment to 
another. Many years ago, that's exactly what Charlie and I did.

     Now we would rather stay put, even if that means slightly 
lower returns. Our reason is simple: We have found splendid 
business relationships to be so rare and so enjoyable that we 
want to retain all we develop.  This decision is particularly 
easy for us because we feel that these relationships will produce
good - though perhaps not optimal - financial results. 
Considering that, we think it makes little sense for us to give 
up time with people we know to be interesting and admirable for 
time with others we do not know and who are likely to have human 
qualities far closer to average. That would be akin to marrying 
for money - a mistake under most circumstances, insanity if one 
is already rich.


Sources of Reported Earnings

     The table below shows the major sources of Berkshire's 
reported earnings. In this presentation, amortization of Goodwill 
and other major purchase-price accounting adjustments are not 
charged against the specific businesses to which they apply, but 
are instead aggregated and shown separately. This procedure lets 
you view the earnings of our businesses as they would have been 
reported had we not purchased them. I've explained in past 
reports why this form of presentation seems to us to be more 
useful to investors and managers than one utilizing generally 
accepted accounting principles (GAAP), which require purchase-
price adjustments to be made on a business-by-business basis. The 
total net earnings we show in the table are, of course, identical 
to the GAAP total in our audited financial statements.

     Further information about these businesses is given in the 
Business Segment section on pages 37-39, and in the Management's 
Discussion section on pages 40-44. In these sections you also 
will find our segment earnings reported on a GAAP basis. For 
information on Wesco's businesses, I urge you to read Charlie 
Munger's letter, which starts on page 54. In addition, we have 
reprinted on page 71 Charlie's May 30, 1989 letter to the U. S. 
League of Savings Institutions, which conveyed our disgust with 
its policies and our consequent decision to resign.

                                              (000s omitted)                   
                              ----------------------------------------------
                                                         Berkshire's Share  
                                                          of Net Earnings  
                                                         (after taxes and  
                                 Pre-Tax Earnings       minority interests)
                              ----------------------  ----------------------
                                 1989        1988        1989        1988
                              ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Operating Earnings:
  Insurance Group:
    Underwriting ............  $(24,400)   $(11,081)   $(12,259)   $ (1,045)
    Net Investment Income ...   243,599     231,250     213,642     197,779
  Buffalo News ..............    46,047      42,429      27,771      25,462
  Fechheimer ................    12,621      14,152       6,789       7,720
  Kirby .....................    26,114      26,891      16,803      17,842
  Nebraska Furniture Mart ...    17,070      18,439       8,441       9,099
  Scott Fetzer 
     Manufacturing Group ....    33,165      28,542      19,996      17,640
  See's Candies .............    34,235      32,473      20,626      19,671
  Wesco - other than Insurance   13,008      16,133       9,810      10,650
  World Book ................    25,583      27,890      16,372      18,021
  Amortization of Goodwill ..    (3,387)     (2,806)     (3,372)     (2,806)
  Other Purchase-Price 
  Accounting Charges ........    (5,740)     (6,342)     (6,668)     (7,340)
  Interest Expense* .........   (42,389)    (35,613)    (27,098)    (23,212)
  Shareholder-Designated 
     Contributions ..........    (5,867)     (4,966)     (3,814)     (3,217)
  Other .....................    23,755      41,059      12,863      27,177
                              ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Operating Earnings ..........   393,414     418,450     299,902     313,441
Sales of Securities .........   223,810     131,671     147,575      85,829
                              ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Total Earnings - All Entities  $617,224    $550,121    $447,477    $399,270

*Excludes interest expense of Scott Fetzer Financial Group and 
 Mutual Savings & Loan.


     We refer you also to pages 45-51, where we have rearranged 
Berkshire's financial data into four segments. These correspond 
to the way Charlie and I think about the business and should help 
you calculate Berkshire's intrinsic value. Shown on these pages 
are balance sheets and earnings statements for:  (1) our 
insurance operations, with their major investment positions 
itemized; (2) our manufacturing, publishing and retailing 
businesses, leaving aside certain non-operating assets and 
purchase-price accounting adjustments; (3) our subsidiaries 
engaged in finance-type operations, which are Mutual Savings and 
Scott Fetzer Financial; and (4) an all-other category that 
includes the non-operating assets (primarily marketable 
securities) held by the companies in segment (2), all purchase 
price accounting adjustments, and various assets and debts of the 
Wesco and Berkshire parent companies.

     If you combine the earnings and net worths of these four 
segments, you will derive totals matching those shown on our GAAP 
statements. However, I want to emphasize that this four-category 
presentation does not fall within the purview of our auditors, 
who in no way bless it.

     In addition to our reported earnings, we also benefit from 
significant earnings of investees that standard accounting rules 
do not permit us to report. On page 15, we list five major 
investees from which we received dividends in 1989 of about $45 
million, after taxes. However, our share of the retained earnings 
of these investees totaled about $212 million last year, not 
counting large capital gains realized by GEICO and Coca-Cola. If 
this $212 million had been distributed to us, our own operating 
earnings, after the payment of additional taxes, would have been 
close to $500 million rather than the $300 million shown in the 
table.

     The question you must decide is whether these undistributed 
earnings are as valuable to us as those we report. We believe 
they are - and even think they may be more valuable. The reason 
for this a-bird-in-the-bush-may-be-worth-two-in-the-hand  
conclusion is that earnings retained  by these  investees will  
be deployed  by talented,  owner-oriented  managers  who 
sometimes have better uses for these funds in their own 
businesses than we would have in ours. I would not make such a 
generous assessment of most managements, but it is appropriate in 
these cases.

     In our view, Berkshire's fundamental earning power is best 
measured by a "look-through" approach, in which we append our 
share of the operating earnings retained by our investees to our 
own reported operating earnings, excluding capital gains in both 
instances. For our intrinsic business value to grow at an average 
of 15% per year, our "look-through" earnings must grow at about 
the same pace. We'll need plenty of help from our present 
investees, and also need to add a new one from time to time, in 
order to reach this 15% goal.


Non-Insurance Operations

     In the past, we have labeled our major manufacturing, 
publishing and retail operations "The Sainted Seven." With our 
acquisition of Borsheim's early in 1989, the challenge was to 
find a new title both alliterative and appropriate. We failed: 
Let's call the group "The Sainted Seven Plus One."

     This divine assemblage - Borsheim's, The Buffalo News, 
Fechheimer Bros., Kirby, Nebraska Furniture Mart, Scott Fetzer 
Manufacturing Group, See's Candies, World Book - is a collection 
of businesses with economic characteristics that range from good 
to superb. Its managers range from superb to superb.

     Most of these managers have no need to work for a living; 
they show up at the ballpark because they like to hit home runs. 
And that's exactly what they do. Their combined financial 
statements (including those of some smaller operations), shown on 
page 49, illustrate just how outstanding their performance is. On 
an historical accounting basis, after-tax earnings of these 
operations were 57% on average equity capital. Moreover, this 
return was achieved with no net leverage: Cash equivalents have 
matched funded debt. When I call off the names of our managers - 
the Blumkin, Friedman and Heldman families, Chuck Huggins, Stan 
Lipsey, and Ralph Schey - I feel the same glow that Miller 
Huggins must have experienced when he announced the lineup of his 
1927 New York Yankees.

     Let's take a look, business by business:

o     In its first year with Berkshire, Borsheim's met all 
expectations. Sales rose significantly and are now considerably 
better than twice what they were four years ago when the company 
moved to its present location. In the six years prior to the 
move, sales had also doubled. Ike Friedman, Borsheim's managing 
genius - and I mean that - has only one speed: fast-forward.

     If you haven't been there, you've never seen a jewelry store 
like Borsheim's. Because of the huge volume it does at one 
location, the store can maintain an enormous selection across all 
price ranges. For the same reason, it can hold its expense ratio 
to about one-third that prevailing at jewelry stores offering 
comparable merchandise. The store's tight control of expenses, 
accompanied by its unusual buying power, enable it to offer 
prices far lower than those of other jewelers. These prices, in 
turn, generate even more volume, and so the circle goes 'round 
and 'round. The end result is store traffic as high as 4,000 
people on seasonally-busy days.

     Ike Friedman is not only a superb businessman and a great 
showman but also a man of integrity. We bought the business 
without an audit, and all of our surprises have been on the plus 
side. "If you don't know jewelry, know your jeweler" makes sense 
whether you are buying the whole business or a tiny diamond.

     A story will illustrate why I enjoy Ike so much: Every two 
years I'm part of an informal group that gathers to have fun and 
explore a few subjects. Last September, meeting at Bishop's Lodge 
in Santa Fe, we asked Ike, his wife Roz, and his son Alan to come 
by and educate us on jewels and the jewelry business.

     Ike decided to dazzle the group, so he brought from Omaha 
about $20 million of particularly fancy merchandise. I was 
somewhat apprehensive - Bishop's Lodge is no Fort Knox - and I 
mentioned my concern to Ike at our opening party the evening 
before his presentation. Ike took me aside. "See that safe?" he 
said. "This afternoon we changed the combination and now even the 
hotel management doesn't know what it is." I breathed easier. Ike 
went on: "See those two big fellows with guns on their hips?  
They'll be guarding the safe all night." I now was ready to 
rejoin the party. But Ike leaned closer: "And besides, Warren," 
he confided, "the jewels aren't in the safe."

     How can we miss with a fellow like that - particularly when 
he comes equipped with a talented and energetic family, Alan, 
Marvin Cohn, and Don Yale.

o     At See's Candies we had an 8% increase in pounds sold, even 
though 1988 was itself a record year. Included in the 1989 
performance were excellent same-store poundage gains, our first 
in many years.

     Advertising played an important role in this outstanding 
performance. We increased total advertising expenditures from $4 
million to $5 million and also got copy from our agency, Hal 
Riney & Partners, Inc., that was 100% on the money in conveying 
the qualities that make See's special.

     In our media businesses, such as the Buffalo News, we sell 
advertising. In other businesses, such as See's, we are buyers. 
When we buy, we practice exactly what we preach when we sell. At 
See's, we more than tripled our expenditures on newspaper 
advertising last year, to the highest percentage of sales that I 
can remember. The payoff was terrific, and we thank both Hal 
Riney and the power of well-directed newspaper advertising for 
this result.

     See's splendid performances have become routine. But there 
is nothing routine about the management of Chuck Huggins: His 
daily involvement with all aspects of production and sales 
imparts a quality-and-service message to the thousands of 
employees we need to produce and distribute over 27 million 
pounds of candy annually. In a company with 225 shops and a 
massive mail order and phone business, it is no small trick to 
run things so that virtually every customer leaves happy. Chuck 
makes it look easy. 

o     The Nebraska Furniture Mart had record sales and excellent 
earnings in 1989, but there was one sad note. Mrs. B - Rose 
Blumkin, who started the company 52 years ago with $500 - quit in 
May, after disagreeing with other members of the Blumkin 
family/management about the remodeling and operation of the 
carpet department.

     Mrs. B probably has made more smart business decisions than 
any living American, but in this particular case I believe the 
other members of the family were entirely correct: Over the past 
three years, while the store's other departments increased sales 
by 24%, carpet sales declined by 17% (but not because of any lack 
of sales ability by Mrs. B, who has always personally sold far 
more merchandise than any other salesperson in the store).

     You will be pleased to know that Mrs. B continues to make 
Horatio Alger's heroes look like victims of tired blood. At age 
96 she has started a new business selling - what else? - carpet 
and furniture. And as always, she works seven days a week.

     At the Mart Louie, Ron, and Irv Blumkin continue to propel 
what is by far the largest and most successful home furnishings 
store in the country. They are outstanding merchants, outstanding 
managers, and a joy to be associated with. One reading on their 
acumen: In the fourth quarter of 1989, the carpet department 
registered a 75.3% consumer share in the Omaha market, up from 
67.7% a year earlier and over six times that of its nearest 
competitor.

     NFM and Borsheim's follow precisely the same formula for 
success: (1) unparalleled depth and breadth of merchandise at one 
location; (2) the lowest operating costs in the business; (3) the 
shrewdest of buying, made possible in part by the huge volumes 
purchased; (4) gross margins, and therefore prices, far below 
competitors'; and (5) friendly personalized service with family 
members on hand at all times.

     Another plug for newspapers: NFM increased its linage in the 
local paper by over 20% in 1989 - off a record 1988 - and remains 
the paper's largest ROP advertiser by far. (ROP advertising is 
the kind printed in the paper, as opposed to that in preprinted 
inserts.) To my knowledge, Omaha is the only city in which a home 
furnishings store is the advertising leader. Many retailers cut 
space purchases in 1989; our experience at See's and NFM would 
indicate they made a major mistake.

o     The Buffalo News continued to star in 1989 in three 
important ways: First, among major metropolitan papers, both 
daily and Sunday, the News is number one in household penetration 
- the percentage of local households that purchase it each day. 
Second, in "news hole" - the portion of the paper devoted to news 
- the paper stood at 50.1% in 1989 vs. 49.5% in 1988, a level 
again making it more news-rich than any comparable American 
paper. Third, in a year that saw profits slip at many major 
papers, the News set its seventh consecutive profit record.

     To some extent, these three factors are related, though 
obviously a high-percentage news hole, by itself, reduces profits 
significantly. A large and intelligently-utilized news hole, 
however, attracts a wide spectrum of readers and thereby boosts 
penetration. High penetration, in turn, makes a newspaper 
particularly valuable to retailers since it allows them to talk 
to the entire community through a single "megaphone." A low-
penetration paper is a far less compelling purchase for many 
advertisers and will eventually suffer in both ad rates and 
profits.

     It should be emphasized that our excellent penetration is 
neither an accident nor automatic. The population of Erie County, 
home territory of the News, has been falling - from 1,113,000 in 
1970 to 1,015,000 in 1980 to an estimated 966,000 in 1988. 
Circulation figures tell a different story. In 1975, shortly 
before we started our Sunday edition, the Courier-Express, a 
long-established Buffalo paper, was selling 207,500 Sunday copies 
in Erie County. Last year - with population at least 5% lower - 
the News sold an average of 292,700 copies. I believe that in no 
other major Sunday market has there been anything close to that 
increase in penetration.

     When this kind of gain is made - and when a paper attains an 
unequaled degree of acceptance in its home town - someone is 
doing something right. In this case major credit clearly belongs 
to Murray Light, our long-time editor who daily creates an 
informative, useful, and interesting product. Credit should go 
also to the Circulation and Production Departments: A paper that 
is frequently late, because of production problems or 
distribution weaknesses, will lose customers, no matter how 
strong its editorial content.

     Stan Lipsey, publisher of the News, has produced profits 
fully up to the strength of our product. I believe Stan's 
managerial skills deliver at least five extra percentage points 
in profit margin compared to the earnings that would be achieved 
by an average manager given the same circumstances. That is an 
amazing performance, and one that could only be produced by a 
talented manager who knows - and cares - about every nut and bolt 
of the business. 

     Stan's knowledge and talents, it should be emphasized, 
extend to the editorial product. His early years in the business 
were spent on the news side and he played a key role in 
developing and editing a series of stories that in 1972 won a 
Pulitzer Prize for the Sun Newspaper of Omaha. Stan and I have 
worked together for over 20 years, through some bad times as well 
as good, and I could not ask for a better partner.

o     At Fechheimer, the Heldman clan - Bob, George, Gary, 
Roger and Fred - continue their extraordinary performance. Profits 
in 1989 were down somewhat because of problems the business 
experienced in integrating a major 1988 acquisition. These 
problems will be ironed out in time. Meanwhile, return on invested 
capital at Fechheimer remains splendid.

     Like all of our managers, the Heldmans have an exceptional 
command of the details of their business. At last year's annual 
meeting I mentioned that when a prisoner enters San Quentin, Bob 
and George probably know his shirt size. That's only a slight 
exaggeration: No matter what area of the country is being 
discussed, they know exactly what is going on with major 
customers and with the competition.

     Though we purchased Fechheimer four years ago, Charlie and I 
have never visited any of its plants or the home office in 
Cincinnati. We're much like the lonesome Maytag repairman: The 
Heldman managerial product is so good that a service call is 
never needed.

o     Ralph Schey continues to do a superb job in managing 
our largest group - World Book, Kirby, and the Scott Fetzer 
Manufacturing Companies. Aggregate earnings of these businesses 
have increased every year since our purchase and returns on 
invested capital continue to be exceptional. Ralph is running an 
enterprise large enough, were it standing alone, to be on the 
Fortune 500. And he's running it in a fashion that would put him 
high in the top decile, measured by return on equity.

     For some years, World Book has operated out of a single 
location in Chicago's Merchandise Mart. Anticipating the imminent 
expiration of its lease, the business is now decentralizing into 
four locations. The expenses of this transition are significant; 
nevertheless profits in 1989 held up well. It will be another 
year before costs of the move are fully behind us.

     Kirby's business was particularly strong last year, 
featuring large gains in export sales. International business has 
more than doubled in the last two years and quintupled in the 
past four; its share of unit sales has risen from 5% to 20%. Our 
largest capital expenditures in 1989 were at Kirby, in 
preparation for a major model change in 1990.

     Ralph's operations contribute about 40% of the total 
earnings of the non-insurance group whose results are shown on 
page 49. When we bought Scott Fetzer at the start of 1986, our 
acquisition of Ralph as a manager was fully as important as our 
acquisition of the businesses. In addition to generating 
extraordinary earnings, Ralph also manages capital extremely 
well. These abilities have produced funds for Berkshire that, in 
turn, have allowed us to make many other profitable commitments.

     And that completes our answer to the 1927 Yankees.


Insurance Operations

     Shown below is an updated version of our usual table 
presenting key figures for the property-casualty insurance 
industry:

                             Statutory    
          Yearly Change    Combined Ratio    Yearly Change   Inflation Rate 
           in Premiums   After Policyholder   in Incurred      Measured by  
           Written (%)       Dividends         Losses (%)   GNP Deflator (%)
          -------------  ------------------  -------------  ----------------

1981           3.8              106.0             6.5              9.6
1982           3.7              109.6             8.4              6.5
1983           5.0              112.0             6.8              3.8
1984           8.5              118.0            16.9              3.8
1985          22.1              116.3            16.1              3.0
1986          22.2              108.0            13.5              2.6
1987           9.4              104.6             7.8              3.1
1988           4.4              105.4             5.5              3.3
1989 (Est.)    2.1              110.4             8.7              4.2

Source: A.M. Best Co.


     The combined ratio represents total insurance costs (losses 
incurred plus expenses) compared to revenue from premiums: A 
ratio below 100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 
100 indicates a loss. When the investment income that an insurer 
earns from holding policyholders' funds ("the float") is taken 
into account, a combined ratio in the 107-111 range typically 
produces an overall breakeven result, exclusive of earnings on 
the funds provided by shareholders.

     For the reasons laid out in previous reports, we expect the 
industry's incurred losses to grow by about 10% annually, even in 
years when general inflation runs considerably lower. (Actually, 
over  the last 25 years, incurred  losses have  grown at a still 
faster rate, 11%.) If premium growth meanwhile materially lags 
that 10% rate, underwriting losses will mount, though the 
industry's tendency to underreserve when business turns bad may 
obscure their size for a time. 

     Last year we said the climb in the combined ratio was 
"almost certain to continue - and probably will accelerate - for 
at least two more years." This year we will not predict 
acceleration, but otherwise must repeat last year's forecast. 
Premium growth is running far below the 10% required annually. 
Remember also that a 10% rate would only stabilize the combined 
ratio, not bring it down.

     The increase in the combined ratio in 1989 was a little more 
than we had expected because catastrophes (led by Hurricane Hugo) 
were unusually severe. These abnormalities probably accounted for 
about two points of the increase. If 1990 is more of a "normal" 
year, the combined ratio should rise only minimally from the 
catastrophe-swollen base of 1989. In 1991, though, the ratio is 
apt to climb by a greater degree.

     Commentators frequently discuss the "underwriting cycle" and 
speculate about its next turn. If that term is used to connote 
rhythmic qualities, it is in our view a misnomer that leads to 
faulty thinking about the industry's fundamental economics.

     The term was appropriate some decades ago when the industry 
and regulators cooperated  to conduct the  business  in cartel  
fashion. At that  time, the combined ratio fluctuated 
rhythmically for two reasons, both related to lags. First, data 
from the past were analyzed and then used to set new "corrected" 
rates, which were subsequently put into effect by virtually all 
insurers. Second, the fact that almost all policies were then 
issued for a one-to three-year term - which meant that it took a 
considerable time for mispriced policies to expire - delayed the 
impact of new rates on revenues. These two lagged responses made 
combined ratios behave much like alternating current. Meanwhile, 
the absence of significant price competition guaranteed that 
industry profits, averaged out over the cycle, would be 
satisfactory.

     The cartel period is long gone. Now the industry has 
hundreds of participants selling a commodity-like product at 
independently-established prices. Such a configuration - whether 
the product being sold is steel or insurance policies - is 
certain to cause subnormal profitability in all circumstances but 
one: a shortage of usable capacity. Just how often these periods 
occur and how long they last determines the average profitability 
of the industry in question.

     In most industries, capacity is described in physical terms. 
In the insurance world, however, capacity is customarily 
described in financial terms; that is, it's considered 
appropriate for a company to write no more than X dollars of 
business if it has Y dollars of net worth. In practice, however, 
constraints of this sort have proven ineffective. Regulators, 
insurance brokers, and customers are all slow to discipline 
companies that strain their resources. They also acquiesce when 
companies grossly overstate their true capital. Hence, a company 
can write a great deal of business with very little capital if it 
is so inclined. At bottom, therefore, the amount of industry 
capacity at any particular moment primarily depends on the mental 
state of insurance managers. 

     All this understood, it is not very difficult to 
prognosticate the industry's profits. Good profits will be 
realized only when there is a shortage of capacity. Shortages 
will occur only when insurers are frightened. That happens rarely 
- and most assuredly is not happening now.

     Some analysts have argued that the more onerous taxes 
recently imposed on the insurance industry and 1989's 
catastrophes - Hurricane Hugo and the California earthquake - 
will cause prices to strengthen significantly. We disagree. These 
adversities have not destroyed the eagerness of insurers to write 
business at present prices. Therefore, premium volume won't grow 
by 10% in 1990, which means the negative underwriting trend will 
not reverse.

     The industry will meantime say it needs higher prices to 
achieve profitability matching that of the average American 
business. Of course it does. So does the steel business. But 
needs and desires have nothing to do with the long-term 
profitability of industries. Instead, economic fundamentals 
determine the outcome. Insurance profitability will improve only 
when virtually all insurers are turning away business despite 
higher prices. And we're a long way from that point.

     Berkshire's premium volume may drop to $150 million or so in 
1990 (from a high of $1 billion in 1986), partly because our 
traditional business continues to shrink and partly because the 
contract under which we received 7% of the business of Fireman's 
Fund expired last August. Whatever the size of the drop, it will 
not disturb us. We have no interest in writing insurance that 
carries a mathematical expectation of loss; we experience enough 
disappointments doing transactions we believe to carry an 
expectation of profit.

     However, our appetite for appropriately-priced business is 
ample, as one tale from 1989 will tell. It concerns "CAT covers," 
which are reinsurance contracts that primary insurance companies 
(and also reinsurers themselves) buy to protect themselves 
against a single catastrophe, such as a tornado or hurricane, 
that produces losses from a large number of policies. In these 
contracts, the primary insurer might retain the loss from a 
single event up to a maximum of, say, $10 million, buying various 
layers of reinsurance above that level. When losses exceed the 
retained amount, the reinsurer typically pays 95% of the excess 
up to its contractual limit, with the primary insurer paying the 
remainder. (By requiring the primary insurer to keep 5% of each 
layer, the reinsurer leaves him with a financial stake in each 
loss settlement and guards against his throwing away the 
reinsurer's money.)

     CAT covers are usually one-year policies that also provide 
for one automatic reinstatement, which requires a primary insurer 
whose coverage has been exhausted by a catastrophe to buy a 
second cover for the balance of the year in question by paying 
another premium. This provision protects the primary company from 
being "bare" for even a brief period after a first catastrophic 
event. The duration of "an event" is usually limited by contract 
to any span of 72 hours designated by the primary company. Under 
this definition, a wide-spread storm, causing damage for three 
days, will be classified as a single event if it arises from a 
single climatic cause. If the storm lasts four days, however, the 
primary company will file a claim carving out the 72 consecutive 
hours during which it suffered the greatest damage. Losses that 
occurred outside that period will be treated as arising from a 
separate event.

     In 1989, two unusual things happened. First, Hurricane Hugo 
generated $4 billion or more of insured loss, at a pace, however, 
that caused the vast damage in the Carolinas to occur slightly 
more than 72 hours after the equally severe damage in the 
Caribbean. Second, the California earthquake hit within weeks, 
causing insured damage that was difficult to estimate, even well 
after the event. Slammed by these two - or possibly three - major 
catastrophes, some primary insurers, and also many reinsurers 
that had themselves bought CAT protection, either used up their 
automatic second cover or became uncertain as to whether they had 
done so.

     At that point sellers of CAT policies had lost a huge amount 
of money - perhaps twice because of the reinstatements - and not 
taken in much in premiums. Depending upon many  variables, a CAT 
premium  might generally have run 3% to 15% of the amount of 
protection purchased. For some years, we've thought premiums of 
that kind inadequate and have stayed away from the business.

     But because the 1989 disasters left many insurers either 
actually or possibly bare, and also left most CAT writers licking 
their wounds, there was an immediate shortage after the 
earthquake of much-needed catastrophe coverage. Prices instantly 
became attractive, particularly for the reinsurance that CAT 
writers themselves buy. Just as instantly, Berkshire Hathaway 
offered to write up to $250 million of catastrophe coverage, 
advertising that proposition in trade publications. Though we did 
not write all the business we sought, we did in a busy ten days 
book a substantial amount.

     Our willingness to put such a huge sum on the line for a 
loss that could occur tomorrow sets us apart from any reinsurer 
in the world. There are, of course, companies that sometimes 
write $250 million or even far more of catastrophe coverage. But 
they do so only when they can, in turn, reinsure a large 
percentage of the business with other companies. When they can't 
"lay off" in size, they disappear from the market.

     Berkshire's policy, conversely, is to retain the business we 
write rather than lay it off. When rates carry an expectation of 
profit, we want to assume as much risk as is prudent. And in our 
case, that's a lot.

     We will accept more reinsurance risk for our own account 
than any other company because of two factors: (1) by the 
standards of regulatory accounting, we have a net worth in our 
insurance companies of about $6 billion - the second highest 
amount in the United States; and (2) we simply don't care what 
earnings we report quarterly, or even annually, just as long as 
the decisions leading to those earnings (or losses) were reached 
intelligently.

     Obviously, if we write $250 million of catastrophe coverage 
and retain it all ourselves, there is some probability that we 
will lose the full $250 million in a single quarter. That 
probability is low, but it is not zero. If we had a loss of that 
magnitude, our after-tax cost would be about $165 million. Though 
that is far more than Berkshire normally earns in a quarter, the 
damage would be a blow only to our pride, not to our well-being.

     This posture is one few insurance managements will assume. 
Typically, they are willing to write scads of business on terms 
that almost guarantee them mediocre returns on equity. But they 
do not want to expose themselves to an embarrassing single-
quarter loss, even if the managerial strategy that causes the 
loss promises, over time, to produce superior results. I can 
understand their thinking: What is best for their owners is not 
necessarily best for the managers. Fortunately Charlie and I have 
both total job security and financial interests that are 
identical with those of our shareholders. We are willing to look 
foolish as long as we don't feel we have acted foolishly. 

     Our method of operation, incidentally, makes us a 
stabilizing force in the industry. We add huge capacity when 
capacity is short and we become less competitive only when 
capacity is abundant. Of course, we don't follow this policy in 
the interest of stabilization - we follow it because we believe 
it to be the most sensible and profitable course of action. 
Nevertheless, our behavior steadies the  market. In  this case, 
Adam  Smith's  invisible  hand works as advertised.

     Currently, we hold an exceptional amount of float compared 
to premium volume. This circumstance should produce quite 
favorable insurance results for us during the next few years as 
it did in 1989. Our underwriting losses should be tolerable and 
our investment income from policyholder funds large. This 
pleasant situation, however, will gradually deteriorate as our 
float runs off.

     At some point, however, there will be an opportunity for us 
to write large amounts of profitable business. Mike Goldberg and 
his management team of Rod Eldred, Dinos Iordanou, Ajit Jain, 
Phil Urban, and Don Wurster continue to position us well for this 
eventuality.


Marketable Securities

     In selecting marketable securities for our insurance 
companies, we generally choose among five major categories: (1) 
long-term common stock investments, (2) medium-term fixed income 
securities, (3) long-term fixed income securities, (4) short-term 
cash equivalents, and (5) short-term arbitrage commitments.

     We have no particular bias when it comes to choosing from 
these categories; we just continuously search among them for the 
highest after-tax returns as measured by "mathematical 
expectation," limiting ourselves always to investment 
alternatives we think we understand. Our criteria have nothing to 
do with maximizing immediately reportable earnings; our goal, 
rather, is to maximize eventual net worth.

o     Below we list our common stock holdings having a value 
of over $100 million. A small portion of these investments belongs 
to subsidiaries of which Berkshire owns less than 100%.
			                        				          
                                                             12/31/89
  Shares    Company                                      Cost       Market
  ------    -------                                   ----------  ----------
                                                          (000s omitted)
 3,000,000  Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. ................ $  517,500  $1,692,375
23,350,000  The Coca-Cola Co. .......................  1,023,920   1,803,787
 2,400,000  Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. ........     71,729     161,100
 6,850,000  GEICO Corp. .............................     45,713   1,044,625
 1,727,765  The Washington Post Company .............      9,731     486,366

     This list of companies is the same as last year's and in 
only one case has the number of shares changed: Our holdings of 
Coca-Cola increased from 14,172,500 shares at the end of 1988 to 
23,350,000. 

     This Coca-Cola investment provides yet another example of 
the incredible speed with which your Chairman responds to 
investment opportunities, no matter how obscure or well-disguised 
they may be. I believe I had my first Coca-Cola in either 1935 or 
1936. Of a certainty, it was in 1936 that I started buying Cokes 
at the rate of six for 25 cents from Buffett & Son, the family 
grocery store, to sell around the neighborhood for 5 cents each. 
In this excursion into high-margin retailing, I duly observed 
the extraordinary consumer attractiveness and commercial 
possibilities of the product.

     I continued to note these qualities for the next 52 years as 
Coke blanketed the world. During this period, however, I 
carefully avoided buying even a single share, instead allocating 
major portions of my net worth to street railway companies, 
windmill manufacturers, anthracite producers, textile businesses, 
trading-stamp issuers, and the like. (If you think I'm making 
this up, I can supply the names.) Only in the summer of 1988 did 
my brain finally establish contact with my eyes.

     What I then perceived was both clear and fascinating. After 
drifting somewhat in the 1970's, Coca-Cola had in 1981 become a 
new company with the move of Roberto Goizueta to CEO. Roberto, 
along with Don Keough, once my across-the-street neighbor in 
Omaha, first rethought and focused the company's policies and 
then energetically carried them out. What was already the world's 
most ubiquitous product gained new momentum, with sales overseas 
virtually exploding.

     Through a truly rare blend of marketing and financial 
skills, Roberto has maximized both the growth of his product and 
the rewards that this growth brings to shareholders. Normally, 
the CEO of a consumer products company, drawing on his natural 
inclinations or experience, will cause either marketing or 
finance to dominate the business at the expense of the other 
discipline. With Roberto, the mesh of marketing and finance is 
perfect and the result is a shareholder's dream.

     Of course, we should have started buying Coke much earlier, 
soon after Roberto and Don began running things. In fact, if I 
had been thinking straight I would have persuaded my grandfather 
to sell the grocery store back in 1936 and put all of the 
proceeds into Coca-Cola stock. I've learned my lesson: My 
response time to the next glaringly attractive idea will be 
slashed to well under 50 years.

     As I mentioned earlier, the yearend prices of our major 
investees were much higher relative to their intrinsic values 
than theretofore. While those prices may not yet cause 
nosebleeds, they are clearly vulnerable to a general market 
decline. A drop in their prices would not disturb us at all - it 
might in fact work to our eventual benefit - but it would cause 
at least a one-year reduction in Berkshire's net worth. We think 
such a reduction is almost certain in at least one of the next 
three years. Indeed, it would take only about a 10% year-to-year 
decline in the aggregate value of our portfolio investments to 
send Berkshire's net worth down.

     We continue to be blessed with extraordinary managers at our 
portfolio companies. They are high-grade, talented, and 
shareholder-oriented. The exceptional results we have achieved 
while investing with them accurately reflect their exceptional 
personal qualities.

o     We told you last year that we expected to do little in 
arbitrage during 1989, and that's the way it turned out. 
Arbitrage positions are a substitute for short-term cash 
equivalents, and during part of the year we held relatively low 
levels of cash. In the rest of the year we had a fairly good-
sized cash position and even so chose not to engage in arbitrage. 
The main reason was corporate transactions that made no economic 
sense to us; arbitraging such deals comes too close to playing 
the greater-fool game. (As Wall Streeter Ray DeVoe says: "Fools 
rush in where angels fear to trade.") We will engage in arbitrage 
from time to time - sometimes on a large scale - but only when we 
like the odds.

o     Leaving aside the three convertible preferreds discussed in 
the next section, we substantially reduced our holdings in both 
medium- and long-term fixed-income securities. In the long-terms, 
just about our only holdings have been Washington Public Power 
Supply Systems (WPPSS) bonds carrying coupons ranging from low to 
high. During the year we sold a number of the low-coupon issues, 
which we originally bought at very large discounts. Many of these 
issues had approximately doubled in price since we purchased them 
and in addition had paid us 15%-17% annually, tax-free. Our 
prices upon sale were only slightly cheaper than typical high-
grade tax-exempts then commanded. We have kept all of our high-
coupon WPPSS issues. Some have been called for redemption in 1991 
and 1992, and we expect the rest to be called in the early to 
mid-1990s. 

     We also sold many of our medium-term tax-exempt bonds during 
the year. When we bought these bonds we said we would be happy to 
sell them - regardless of whether they were higher or lower than 
at our time of purchase - if something we liked better came 
along. Something did - and concurrently we unloaded most of these 
issues at modest gains. Overall, our 1989 profit from the sale of 
tax-exempt bonds was about $51 million pre-tax.

o     The proceeds from our bond sales, along with our excess cash 
at the beginning of the year and that generated later through 
earnings, went into the purchase of three convertible preferred 
stocks. In the first transaction, which took place in July, we 
purchased $600 million of The Gillette Co. preferred with an 8 
3/4% dividend, a mandatory redemption in ten years, and the right 
to convert into common at $50 per share. We next purchased $358 
million of USAir Group, Inc. preferred stock with mandatory 
redemption in ten years, a dividend of 9 1/4%, and the right to 
convert into common at $60 per share. Finally, late in the year 
we purchased $300 million of Champion International Corp. 
preferred with mandatory redemption in ten years, a 9 1/4% 
dividend, and the right to convert into common at $38 per share.

     Unlike standard convertible preferred stocks, the issues we 
own are either non-salable or non-convertible for considerable 
periods of time and there is consequently no way we can gain from 
short-term price blips in the common stock. I have gone on the 
board of Gillette, but I am not on the board of USAir or 
Champion. (I thoroughly enjoy the boards I am on, but can't 
handle any more.)

     Gillette's business is very much the kind we like. Charlie 
and I think we understand the company's economics and therefore 
believe we can make a reasonably intelligent guess about its 
future. (If you haven't tried Gillette's new Sensor razor, go 
right out and get one.) However, we have no ability to forecast 
the economics of the investment banking business (in which we 
have a position through our 1987 purchase of Salomon convertible 
preferred), the airline industry, or the paper industry. This 
does not mean that we predict a negative  future for these  
industries: we're  agnostics, not  atheists. Our  lack of  strong 
convictions about these businesses, however, means that we must 
structure our investments in them differently from what we do 
when we invest in a business appearing to have splendid economic 
characteristics.

     In one major respect, however, these purchases are not 
different: We only want to link up with people whom we like, 
admire, and trust. John Gutfreund at Salomon, Colman Mockler, Jr. 
at Gillette, Ed Colodny at USAir, and Andy Sigler at Champion 
meet this test in spades.

     They in turn have demonstrated some confidence in us, 
insisting in each case that our preferreds have unrestricted 
voting rights on a fully-converted basis, an arrangement that is 
far from standard in corporate finance. In effect they are 
trusting us to be intelligent owners, thinking about tomorrow 
instead of today, just as we are trusting them to be intelligent 
managers, thinking about tomorrow as well as today. 

     The preferred-stock structures we have negotiated will 
provide a mediocre return for us if industry economics hinder the 
performance of our investees, but will produce reasonably 
attractive results for us if they can earn a return comparable to 
that of American industry in general. We believe that Gillette, 
under Colman's management, will far exceed that return and 
believe that John, Ed, and Andy will reach it unless industry 
conditions are harsh.

     Under almost any conditions, we expect these preferreds to 
return us our money plus dividends. If that is all we get, 
though, the result will be disappointing, because we will have 
given up flexibility and consequently will have missed some 
significant opportunities that are bound to present themselves 
during the decade. Under that scenario, we will have obtained 
only a preferred-stock yield during a period when the typical 
preferred stock will have held no appeal for us whatsoever. The 
only way Berkshire can achieve satisfactory results from its four 
preferred issues is to have the common stocks of the investee 
companies do well. 

     Good management and at least tolerable industry conditions 
will be needed if that is to happen. But we believe Berkshire's 
investment will also help and that the other shareholders of each 
investee will profit over the years ahead from our preferred-
stock purchase. The help will come from the fact that each 
company now has a major, stable, and interested shareholder whose 
Chairman and Vice Chairman have, through Berkshire's investments, 
indirectly committed a very large amount of their own money to 
these undertakings. In dealing with our investees, Charlie and I 
will be supportive, analytical, and objective. We recognize that 
we are working with experienced CEOs who are very much in command 
of their own businesses but who nevertheless, at certain moments, 
appreciate the chance to test  their thinking on someone without 
ties to their industry or to decisions of the past.

     As a group, these convertible preferreds will not produce 
the returns we can achieve when we find a business with wonderful 
economic prospects that is unappreciated by the market. Nor will 
the returns be as attractive as those produced when we make our 
favorite form of capital deployment, the acquisition of 80% or 
more of a fine business with a fine management. But both 
opportunities are rare, particularly in a size befitting our 
present and anticipated resources. 

     In summation, Charlie and I feel that our preferred stock 
investments should produce returns moderately above those 
achieved by most fixed-income portfolios and that we can play a 
minor but enjoyable and constructive role in the investee 
companies.


Zero-Coupon Securities

     In September, Berkshire issued $902.6 million principal 
amount of Zero-Coupon Convertible Subordinated Debentures, which 
are now listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Salomon Brothers 
handled the underwriting in superb fashion, providing us helpful 
advice and a flawless execution. 

     Most bonds, of course, require regular payments of interest, 
usually semi-annually. A zero-coupon bond, conversely, requires 
no current interest payments; instead, the investor receives his 
yield by purchasing the security at a significant discount from 
maturity value. The effective interest rate is determined by the 
original issue price, the maturity value, and the amount of time 
between issuance and maturity.

     In our case, the bonds were issued at 44.314% of maturity 
value and are due in 15 years. For investors purchasing the 
bonds, that is the mathematical equivalent of a 5.5% current 
payment compounded semi-annually. Because we received only 
44.31 cents on the dollar, our proceeds from this offering were 
$400 million (less about $9.5 million of offering expenses).

     The bonds were issued in denominations of $10,000 and each 
bond is convertible into .4515 shares of Berkshire Hathaway. 
Because a $10,000 bond cost $4,431, this means that the 
conversion price was $9,815 per Berkshire share, a 15% premium to 
the market price then existing. Berkshire can call the bonds at 
any time after  September 28, 1992 at their accreted value (the 
original issue price plus 5.5% compounded semi-annually) and on 
two specified days, September 28 of 1994 and 1999, the 
bondholders can require Berkshire to buy the securities at their 
accreted value.

     For tax purposes, Berkshire is entitled to deduct the 5.5% 
interest accrual each year, even though we make no payments to 
the bondholders. Thus the net effect to us, resulting from the 
reduced taxes, is positive cash flow. That is a very significant 
benefit. Some unknowable variables prevent us from calculating 
our exact effective rate of interest, but under all circumstances 
it will be well below 5.5%. There is meanwhile a symmetry to the 
tax law: Any taxable holder of the bonds must pay tax each year 
on the 5.5% interest, even though he receives no cash.

     Neither our bonds nor those of certain other companies that 
issued similar bonds last year (notably Loews and Motorola) 
resemble the great bulk of zero-coupon bonds that have been 
issued in recent years. Of these, Charlie and I have been, and 
will continue to be, outspoken critics. As I will later explain, 
such bonds have often been used in the most deceptive of ways and 
with deadly consequences to investors. But before we tackle that 
subject, let's travel back to Eden, to a time when the apple had 
not yet been bitten.

     If you're my age you bought your first zero-coupon bonds 
during World War II, by purchasing the famous Series E U. S. 
Savings Bond, the most widely-sold bond issue in history. (After 
the war, these bonds were held by one out of two U. S. 
households.) Nobody, of course, called the Series E a zero-coupon 
bond, a term in fact that I doubt had been invented. But that's 
precisely what the Series E was.

     These bonds came in denominations as small as $18.75. That 
amount purchased a $25 obligation of the United States government 
due in 10 years, terms that gave the buyer a compounded annual 
return of 2.9%. At the time, this was an attractive offer: the 
2.9% rate was higher than that generally available on Government 
bonds and the holder faced no market-fluctuation risk, since he 
could at any time cash in his bonds with only a minor reduction 
in interest.

     A second form of zero-coupon U. S. Treasury issue, also 
benign and useful, surfaced in the last decade. One problem with 
a normal bond is that even though it pays a given interest rate - 
say 10% - the holder cannot be assured that a compounded 10% 
return will be realized. For that rate to materialize, each semi-
annual coupon must be reinvested at 10% as it is received. If 
current interest rates are, say, only 6% or 7% when these coupons 
come due, the holder will be unable to compound his money over 
the life of the bond at the advertised rate. For pension funds or 
other investors with long-term liabilities, "reinvestment risk" 
of this type can be a serious problem. Savings Bonds might have 
solved it, except that they are issued only to individuals and 
are unavailable in large denominations. What big buyers needed 
was huge quantities of "Savings Bond Equivalents."

     Enter some ingenious and, in this case, highly useful 
investment bankers (led, I'm happy to say, by Salomon Brothers). 
They created the instrument desired by "stripping" the semi-
annual coupons from standard Government issues. Each coupon, once 
detached, takes on the essential character of a Savings Bond 
since it represents a single sum due sometime in the future. For 
example, if you strip the 40 semi-annual coupons from a U. S. 
Government Bond due in the year 2010, you will have 40 zero-
coupon bonds, with maturities from six months to 20 years, each 
of which can then be bundled with other coupons of like maturity 
and marketed. If current interest rates are, say, 10% for all 
maturities, the six-month issue will sell for 95.24% of maturity 
value and the 20-year issue will sell for 14.20%. The purchaser 
of any given maturity is thus guaranteed a compounded rate of 10% 
for his entire holding period. Stripping of government bonds has 
occurred on a large scale in recent years, as long-term 
investors, ranging from pension funds to individual IRA accounts, 
recognized these high-grade, zero-coupon issues to be well suited 
to their needs.

     But as happens in Wall Street all too often, what the wise 
do in the beginning, fools do in the end. In the last few years 
zero-coupon bonds (and their functional equivalent, pay-in-kind 
bonds, which distribute additional PIK bonds semi-annually as 
interest instead of paying cash) have been issued in enormous 
quantities by ever-junkier credits. To these issuers, zero (or 
PIK) bonds offer one overwhelming advantage:  It is impossible to 
default on a promise to pay nothing. Indeed, if LDC governments 
had issued no debt in the 1970's other than long-term zero-coupon 
obligations, they would now have a spotless record as debtors.

     This principle at work - that you need not default for a 
long time if you solemnly promise to pay nothing for a long time 
- has not been lost on promoters and investment bankers seeking 
to finance ever-shakier deals. But its acceptance by lenders took 
a while: When the leveraged buy-out craze began some years back, 
purchasers could borrow only on a reasonably sound basis, in 
which conservatively-estimated free cash flow - that is, 
operating earnings plus depreciation and amortization less 
normalized capital expenditures - was adequate to cover both 
interest and modest reductions in debt.

     Later, as the adrenalin of deal-makers surged, businesses 
began to be purchased at prices so high that all free cash flow 
necessarily had to be allocated to the payment of interest. That 
left nothing for the paydown of debt. In effect, a Scarlett 
O'Hara "I'll think about it tomorrow" position in respect to 
principal payments was taken by borrowers and accepted by a new 
breed of lender, the buyer of original-issue junk bonds. Debt now 
became something to be refinanced rather than repaid. The change 
brings to mind a New Yorker cartoon in which the grateful 
borrower rises to shake the hand of the bank's lending officer 
and gushes: "I don't know how I'll ever repay you."

     Soon borrowers found even the new, lax standards intolerably 
binding. To induce lenders to finance even sillier transactions, 
they introduced an abomination, EBDIT - Earnings Before 
Depreciation, Interest and Taxes - as the test of a company's 
ability to pay interest. Using this sawed-off yardstick, the 
borrower ignored depreciation as an expense on the theory that it 
did not require a current cash outlay. 

     Such an attitude is clearly delusional. At 95% of American 
businesses, capital expenditures that over time roughly 
approximate depreciation are a necessity and are every bit as 
real an expense as labor or utility costs. Even a high school 
dropout knows that to finance a car he must have income that 
covers not only interest and operating expenses, but also 
realistically-calculated depreciation. He would be laughed out of 
the bank if he started talking about EBDIT. 

     Capital outlays at a business can be skipped, of course, in 
any given month, just as a human can skip a day or even a week of 
eating. But if the skipping becomes routine and is not made up, 
the body weakens and eventually dies. Furthermore, a start-and-
stop feeding policy will over time produce a less healthy 
organism, human or corporate, than that produced by a steady 
diet. As businessmen, Charlie and I relish having competitors who 
are unable to fund capital expenditures.

     You might think that waving away a major expense such as 
depreciation in an attempt to make a terrible deal look like a 
good one hits the limits of Wall Street's ingenuity. If so, you 
haven't been paying attention during the past few years. 
Promoters needed to find a way to justify even pricier 
acquisitions. Otherwise, they risked - heaven forbid! - losing 
deals to other promoters with more "imagination."

     So, stepping through the Looking Glass, promoters and their 
investment bankers proclaimed that EBDIT should now be measured 
against cash interest only, which meant that interest accruing on 
zero-coupon or PIK bonds could be ignored when the financial 
feasibility of a transaction was being assessed. This approach 
not only relegated depreciation expense to the let's-ignore-it 
corner, but gave similar treatment to what was usually a 
significant portion of interest expense. To their shame, many 
professional investment managers went along with this nonsense, 
though they usually were careful to do so only with clients' 
money, not their own. (Calling these managers "professionals" is 
actually too kind; they should be designated "promotees.")

     Under this new standard, a business earning, say, $100 
million pre-tax and having debt on which $90 million of interest 
must be paid currently, might use a zero-coupon or PIK issue to 
incur another $60 million of annual interest that would accrue 
and compound but not come due for some years. The rate on these 
issues would typically be very high, which means that the 
situation in year 2 might be $90 million cash interest plus $69 
million accrued interest, and so on as the compounding proceeds. 
Such high-rate reborrowing schemes, which a few years ago were 
appropriately confined to the waterfront,  soon became models of 
modern finance at virtually all major investment banking houses.

     When they make these offerings, investment bankers display 
their humorous side: They dispense income and balance sheet 
projections extending five or more years into the future for 
companies they barely had heard of a few months earlier. If you 
are shown such schedules, I suggest that you join in the fun:  
Ask the investment banker for the one-year budgets that his own 
firm prepared as the last few years began and then compare these 
with what actually happened.

     Some time ago Ken Galbraith, in his witty and insightful 
The Great Crash, coined a new economic term: "the bezzle," 
defined as the current amount of undiscovered embezzlement. This 
financial creature has a magical quality: The embezzlers are richer 
by the amount of the bezzle, while the embezzlees do not yet feel 
poorer.

     Professor Galbraith astutely pointed out that this sum 
should be added to the National Wealth so that we might know the 
Psychic National Wealth. Logically, a society that wanted to feel 
enormously prosperous would both encourage its citizens to 
embezzle and try not to detect the crime. By this means, "wealth" 
would balloon though not an erg of productive work had been done. 

     The satirical nonsense of the bezzle is dwarfed by the real-
world nonsense of the zero-coupon bond. With zeros, one party to 
a contract can experience "income" without his opposite 
experiencing the pain of expenditure. In our illustration, a 
company capable of earning only $100 million dollars annually - 
and therefore capable of paying only that much in interest - 
magically creates "earnings" for bondholders of $150 million. As 
long as major investors willingly don their Peter Pan wings and 
repeatedly say "I believe," there is no limit to how much 
"income" can be created by the zero-coupon bond.

     Wall Street welcomed this invention with the enthusiasm 
less-enlightened folk might reserve for the wheel or the plow. 
Here, finally, was an instrument that would let the Street make 
deals at prices no longer limited by actual earning power. The 
result, obviously, would be more transactions: Silly prices will 
always attract sellers. And, as Jesse Unruh might have put it, 
transactions are the mother's milk of finance.

     The zero-coupon or PIK bond possesses one additional 
attraction for the promoter and investment banker, which is that 
the time elapsing between folly and failure can be stretched out. 
This is no small benefit. If the period before all costs must be 
faced is long, promoters can create a string of foolish deals - 
and take in lots of fees - before any chickens come home to roost 
from their earlier ventures. 

     But in the end, alchemy, whether it is metallurgical or 
financial, fails. A base business can not be transformed into a 
golden business by tricks of accounting or capital structure. The 
man claiming to be a financial alchemist may become rich. But 
gullible investors rather than business achievements will usually 
be the source of his wealth.

     Whatever their weaknesses, we should add, many zero-coupon 
and PIK bonds will not default. We have in fact owned some and 
may buy more if their market becomes sufficiently distressed. 
(We've not, however, even considered buying a new issue from a 
weak credit.) No financial instrument is evil per se; it's just 
that some variations have far more potential for mischief than 
others.

     The blue ribbon for mischief-making should go to the zero-
coupon issuer unable to make its interest payments on a current 
basis. Our advice: Whenever an investment banker starts talking 
about EBDIT - or whenever someone creates a capital structure 
that does not allow all interest, both payable and accrued, to be 
comfortably met out of current cash flow net of ample capital 
expenditures - zip up your wallet. Turn the tables by suggesting 
that the promoter and his high-priced entourage accept zero-
coupon fees, deferring their take until the zero-coupon bonds 
have been paid in full. See then how much enthusiasm for the deal 
endures.

     Our comments about investment bankers may seem harsh. But 
Charlie and I - in our hopelessly old-fashioned way - believe 
that they should perform a gatekeeping role, guarding investors 
against the promoter's propensity to indulge in excess. 
Promoters, after all, have throughout time exercised the same 
judgment and restraint in accepting money that alcoholics have 
exercised in accepting liquor. At a minimum, therefore, the 
banker's conduct should rise to that of a responsible bartender 
who, when necessary, refuses the profit from the next drink to 
avoid sending a drunk out on the highway. In recent years, 
unfortunately, many leading investment firms have found bartender 
morality to be an intolerably restrictive standard. Lately, those 
who have traveled the high road in Wall Street have not 
encountered heavy traffic.

     One distressing footnote: The cost of the zero-coupon folly 
will not be borne solely by the direct participants. Certain 
savings and loan associations were heavy buyers of such bonds, 
using cash that came from FSLIC-insured deposits. Straining to 
show splendid earnings, these buyers recorded - but did not 
receive - ultra-high interest income on these issues. Many of 
these  associations are now in  major trouble. Had their loans to 
shaky credits worked, the owners of the associations would have 
pocketed the profits. In the many cases in which the loans will 
fail, the taxpayer will pick up the bill. To paraphrase Jackie 
Mason, at these associations it was the managers who should have 
been wearing the ski masks.


Mistakes of the First Twenty-five Years (A Condensed Version)

     To quote Robert Benchley, "Having a dog teaches a boy 
fidelity, perseverance, and to turn around three times before 
lying down." Such are the shortcomings of experience. 
Nevertheless, it's a good idea to review past mistakes before 
committing new ones. So let's take a quick look at the last 25 
years.

o     My first mistake, of course, was in buying control of 
Berkshire. Though I knew its business - textile manufacturing - 
to be unpromising, I was enticed to buy because the price looked 
cheap. Stock purchases of that kind had proved reasonably 
rewarding in my early years, though by the time Berkshire came 
along in 1965 I was becoming aware that the strategy was not 
ideal.

     If you buy a stock at a sufficiently low price, there will 
usually be some hiccup in the fortunes of the business that gives 
you a chance to unload at a decent profit, even though the long-
term performance of the business may be terrible. I call this the 
"cigar butt" approach to investing. A cigar butt found on the 
street that has only one puff left in it may not offer much of a 
smoke, but the "bargain purchase" will make that puff all profit.

     Unless you are a liquidator, that kind of approach to buying 
businesses is foolish. First, the original "bargain" price 
probably will not turn out to be such a steal after all. In a 
difficult business, no sooner is one problem solved than another 
surfaces -  never is there just one cockroach in the kitchen. 
Second, any initial advantage you secure will be quickly eroded 
by the low return that the business earns. For example, if you 
buy a business for $8 million that can be sold or liquidated for 
$10 million and promptly take either course, you can realize a 
high return. But the investment will disappoint if the business 
is sold for $10 million in ten years and in the interim has 
annually earned and distributed only a few percent on cost. Time 
is the friend of the wonderful business, the enemy of the 
mediocre.

     You might think this principle is obvious, but I had to 
learn it the hard way - in fact, I had to learn it several times 
over. Shortly after purchasing Berkshire, I acquired a Baltimore 
department store, Hochschild Kohn, buying through a company 
called Diversified Retailing that later merged with Berkshire. I 
bought at a substantial discount from book value, the people were 
first-class, and the deal included some extras - unrecorded real 
estate values and a significant LIFO inventory cushion. How could 
I miss? So-o-o - three years later I was lucky to sell the 
business for about what I had paid. After ending our corporate 
marriage to Hochschild Kohn, I had memories like those of the 
husband in the country song, "My Wife Ran Away With My Best 
Friend and I Still Miss Him a Lot."

     I could give you other personal examples of "bargain-
purchase" folly but I'm sure you get the picture:  It's far 
better to buy a wonderful company at a fair price than a fair 
company at a wonderful price. Charlie understood this early; I 
was a slow learner. But now, when buying companies or common 
stocks, we look for first-class businesses accompanied by first-
class managements.

o     That leads right into a related lesson: Good jockeys will 
do well on good horses, but not on broken-down nags. Both 
Berkshire's textile business and Hochschild, Kohn had able and 
honest people running them. The same managers employed in a 
business with good economic characteristics would have achieved 
fine records. But they were never going to make any progress 
while running in quicksand. 

     I've said many times that when a management with a 
reputation for brilliance tackles a business with a reputation 
for bad economics, it is the reputation of the business that 
remains intact. I just wish I hadn't been so energetic in 
creating examples. My behavior has matched that admitted by  Mae 
West: "I was Snow White, but I drifted."

o     A further related lesson: Easy does it. After 25 years of 
buying and supervising a great variety of businesses, Charlie and 
I have not learned how to solve difficult business problems. What 
we have learned is to avoid them. To the extent we have been 
successful, it is because we concentrated on identifying one-foot 
hurdles that we could step over rather than because we acquired 
any ability to clear seven-footers.

     The finding may seem unfair, but in both business and 
investments it is usually far more profitable to simply stick 
with the easy and obvious than it is to resolve the difficult. On 
occasion, tough problems must be tackled as was the case when we 
started our Sunday paper in Buffalo. In other instances, a great 
investment opportunity occurs when a marvelous business 
encounters a one-time huge, but solvable, problem as was the case 
many years back at both American Express and GEICO. Overall, 
however, we've done better by avoiding dragons than by slaying 
them. 

o     My most surprising discovery: the overwhelming importance in 
business of an unseen force that we might call "the institutional 
imperative." In business school, I was given no hint of the 
imperative's existence and I did not intuitively understand it 
when I entered the business world. I thought then that decent, 
intelligent, and experienced managers would automatically make 
rational business decisions. But I learned over time that isn't 
so. Instead, rationality frequently wilts when the institutional 
imperative comes into play.

     For example: (1) As if governed by Newton's First Law of 
Motion, an institution will resist any change in its current 
direction; (2) Just as work expands to fill available time, 
corporate projects or acquisitions will materialize to soak up 
available funds; (3) Any business craving of the leader, however 
foolish, will be quickly supported by detailed rate-of-return and 
strategic studies prepared by his troops; and (4) The behavior of 
peer companies, whether they are expanding, acquiring, setting 
executive compensation or whatever, will be mindlessly imitated.

     Institutional dynamics, not venality or stupidity, set 
businesses on these courses, which are too often misguided. After 
making some expensive mistakes because I ignored the power of the 
imperative, I have tried to organize and manage Berkshire in ways 
that minimize its influence. Furthermore, Charlie and I have 
attempted to concentrate our investments in companies that appear 
alert to the problem.

o     After some other mistakes, I learned to go into business 
only with people whom I like, trust, and admire. As I noted 
before, this policy of itself will not ensure success: A second-
class textile or department-store company won't prosper simply 
because its managers are men that you would be pleased to see 
your daughter marry. However, an owner - or investor - can 
accomplish wonders if he manages to associate himself with such 
people in businesses that possess decent economic 
characteristics. Conversely, we do not wish to join with managers 
who lack admirable qualities, no matter how attractive the 
prospects of their business. We've never succeeded in making a 
good deal with a bad person.

o     Some of my worst mistakes were not publicly visible. These 
were stock and business purchases whose virtues I understood and 
yet didn't make. It's no sin to miss a great opportunity outside 
one's area of competence. But I have passed on a couple of really 
big purchases that were served up to me on a platter and that I 
was fully capable of understanding. For Berkshire's shareholders, 
myself included, the cost of this thumb-sucking has been huge.

o     Our consistently-conservative financial policies may appear 
to have been a mistake, but in my view were not. In retrospect, 
it is clear that significantly higher, though still conventional, 
leverage ratios at Berkshire would have produced considerably 
better returns on equity than the 23.8% we have actually 
averaged. Even in 1965, perhaps we could have judged there to be 
a 99% probability that higher leverage would lead to nothing but 
good. Correspondingly, we might have seen only a 1% chance that 
some shock factor, external or internal, would cause a 
conventional debt ratio to produce a result falling somewhere 
between temporary anguish and default.

     We wouldn't have liked those 99:1 odds - and never will. A 
small chance of distress or disgrace cannot, in our view, be 
offset by a large chance of extra returns. If your actions are 
sensible, you are certain to get good results; in most such 
cases, leverage just moves things along faster. Charlie and I 
have never been in a big hurry: We enjoy the process far more 
than the proceeds - though we have learned to live with those 
also.

              *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *

     We hope in another 25 years to report on the mistakes of the 
first 50. If we are around in 2015 to do that, you can count on 
this section occupying many more pages than it does here.


Miscellaneous

     We hope to buy more businesses that are similar to the ones 
we have, and we can use some help. If you have a business that 
fits the following criteria, call me or, preferably, write.

     Here's what we're looking for:

     (1)  Large purchases (at least $10 million of after-tax 
          earnings),

     (2)  demonstrated consistent earning power (future 
          projections are of little interest to us, nor are 
          "turnaround" situations),

     (3)  businesses earning good returns on equity while 
          employing little or no debt,

     (4)  management in place (we can't supply it),

     (5)  simple businesses (if there's lots of technology, we 
          won't understand it),

     (6)  an offering price  (we don't want to waste our time or 
          that of the seller by talking,  even  preliminarily, 
          about a transaction when price is unknown).

     We will not engage in unfriendly takeovers. We can promise 
complete confidentiality and a very fast answer - customarily 
within five minutes - as to whether we're interested. We prefer 
to buy for cash, but will consider issuing stock when we receive 
as much in intrinsic business value as we give.

     Our favorite form of purchase is one fitting the Blumkin-
Friedman-Heldman mold. In cases like these, the company's owner-
managers wish to generate significant amounts of cash, sometimes 
for themselves, but often for their families or inactive 
shareholders. At the same time, these managers wish to remain 
significant owners who continue to run their companies just as 
they have in the past. We think we offer a particularly good fit 
for owners with such objectives. We invite potential sellers to 
check us out by contacting people with whom we have done business 
in the past.

     Charlie and I frequently get approached about acquisitions 
that don't come close to meeting our tests:  We've found that if 
you advertise an interest in buying collies, a lot of people will 
call hoping to sell you their cocker spaniels. Our interest in 
new ventures, turnarounds, or auction-like sales can best be 
expressed by a Goldwynism: "Please include me out."

     Besides being interested in the purchase of businesses as 
described above, we are also interested in the negotiated 
purchase of large, but not controlling, blocks of stock 
comparable to those we hold in Capital Cities, Salomon, Gillette, 
USAir and Champion. Last year we said we had a special interest 
in large purchases of convertible preferreds. We still have an 
appetite of that kind, but it is limited since we now are close 
to the maximum position we feel appropriate for this category of 
investment.

              *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *

     Two years ago, I told you about Harry Bottle, who in 1962 
quickly cured a major business mess at the first industrial 
company I controlled, Dempster Mill Manufacturing (one of my 
"bargain" purchases) and who 24 years later had reappeared to 
again rescue me, this time from problems at K&W Products, a small 
Berkshire subsidiary that produces automotive compounds. As I 
reported, in short order Harry reduced capital employed at K&W, 
rationalized production, cut costs, and quadrupled profits. You 
might think he would then have paused for breath. But last year 
Harry, now 70, attended a bankruptcy auction and, for a pittance, 
acquired a product line that is a natural for K&W. That company's 
profitability may well be increased 50% by this coup. Watch this 
space for future bulletins on Harry's triumphs.

              *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *

     With more than a year behind him of trading Berkshire's 
stock on the New York Stock Exchange, our specialist, Jim Maguire 
of Henderson Brothers, Inc. ("HBI"), continues his outstanding 
performance. Before we listed, dealer spreads often were 3% or 
more of market price. Jim has maintained the spread at 50 points 
or less, which at current prices is well under 1%. Shareholders 
who buy or sell benefit significantly from this reduction in 
transaction costs. 

     Because we are delighted by our experience with Jim, HBI and 
the NYSE, I said as much in ads that have been run in a series 
placed by the NYSE. Normally I shun testimonials, but I was 
pleased in this instance to publicly compliment the Exchange.

              *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *

     Last summer we sold the corporate jet that we purchased for 
$850,000 three years ago and bought another used jet for $6.7 
million. Those of you who recall the mathematics of the 
multiplying bacteria on page 5 will understandably panic: If our 
net worth continues to increase at current rates, and the cost of 
replacing planes also continues to rise at the now-established 
rate of 100% compounded annually, it will not be long before 
Berkshire's entire net worth is consumed by its jet.

     Charlie doesn't like it when I equate the jet with bacteria; 
he feels it's degrading to the bacteria. His idea of traveling in 
style is an air-conditioned bus, a luxury he steps up to only 
when bargain fares are in effect. My own attitude toward the jet 
can be summarized by the prayer attributed, apocryphally I'm 
sure, to St. Augustine as he contemplated leaving a life of 
secular pleasures to become a priest. Battling the conflict 
between intellect and glands, he pled: "Help me, Oh Lord, to 
become chaste - but not yet."

     Naming the plane has not been easy. I initially suggested 
"The Charles T. Munger." Charlie countered with "The Aberration." 
We finally settled on "The Indefensible."  

              *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *

     About 96.9% of all eligible shares participated in 
Berkshire's 1989 shareholder-designated contributions program. 
Contributions made through the program were $5.9 million, and 
2,550 charities were recipients.

     We urge new shareholders to read the description of our 
shareholder-designated contributions program that appears on 
pages 52-53. If you wish to participate in future programs, we 
strongly urge that you immediately make sure your shares are 
registered in the name of the actual owner, not in the nominee 
name of a broker, bank or depository. Shares not so registered on 
August 31, 1990 will be ineligible for the 1990 program.

              *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *  *

     The annual meeting this year will take place at 9:30 a.m. on 
Monday, April 30, 1990. Attendance grew last year to about 1,000, 
very close to the seating capacity of the Witherspoon Hall at 
Joslyn Museum. So this year's meeting will be moved to the 
Orpheum Theatre, which is in downtown Omaha, about one-quarter of 
a mile from the Red Lion Hotel. The Radisson-Redick Tower, a much 
smaller but nice hotel, is located across the street from the 
Orpheum. Or you may wish to stay at the Marriott, which is in 
west Omaha, about 100 yards from Borsheim's. We will have buses 
at the Marriott that will leave at 8:30 and 8:45 for the meeting 
and return after it ends.

     Charlie and I always enjoy the meeting, and we hope you can 
make it. The quality of our shareholders is reflected in the 
quality of the questions we get: We have never attended an annual 
meeting anywhere that features such a consistently high level of 
intelligent, owner-related questions. 

     An attachment to our proxy material explains how you can 
obtain the card you will need for admission to the meeting. 
Because weekday parking can be tight around the Orpheum, we have 
lined up a number of nearby lots for our shareholders to use. The 
attachment also contains information about them.

     As usual, we will have buses to take you to Nebraska 
Furniture Mart and Borsheim's after the meeting and to take you 
to downtown hotels or to the airport later. I hope that you will 
allow plenty of time to fully explore the attractions of both 
stores. Those of you arriving early can visit the Furniture Mart 
any day of the week; it is open from 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. on 
Saturdays, and from noon to 5:30 p.m. on Sundays.

     Borsheim's normally is closed on Sunday, but we will open 
for shareholders and their guests from noon to 6 p.m. on Sunday, 
April 29th. Ike likes to put on a show, and you can rely on him 
to produce something very special for our shareholders.

     In this letter we've had a lot to say about rates of 
compounding. If you can bear having your own rate turn negative 
for a day - not a pretty thought, I admit - visit Ike on the 
29th.



							
                                        Warren E. Buffett
March 2, 1990                           Chairman of the Board









Chairman's Letter - 1990



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC. 
To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.: 
      Last year we made a prediction: "A reduction [in Berkshire's net worth] is almost certain in at least one of the next three years." During much of 1990's second half, we were on the road to quickly proving that forecast accurate. But some strengthening in stock prices late in the year enabled us to close 1990 with net worth up by $362 million, or 7.3%. Over the last 26 years (that is, since present management took over) our per-share book value has grown from $19.46 to $4,612.06, or at a rate of 23.2% compounded annually. 
      Our growth rate was lackluster in 1990 because our four major common stock holdings, in aggregate, showed little change in market value. Last year I told you that though these companies - Capital Cities/ABC, Coca-Cola, GEICO, and Washington Post - had fine businesses and superb managements, widespread recognition of these attributes had pushed the stock prices of the four to lofty levels. The market prices of the two media companies have since fallen significantly - for good reasons relating to evolutionary industry developments that I will discuss later - and the price of Coca-Cola stock has increased significantly for what I also believe are good reasons. Overall, yearend 1990 prices of our "permanent four," though far from enticing, were a bit more appealing than they were a year earlier. 
      Berkshire's 26-year record is meaningless in forecasting future results; so also, we hope, is the one-year record. We continue to aim for a 15% average annual gain in intrinsic value. But, as we never tire of telling you, this goal becomes ever more difficult to reach as our equity base, now $5.3 billion, increases. 
      If we do attain that 15% average, our shareholders should fare well. However, Berkshire's corporate gains will produce an identical gain for a specific shareholder only if he eventually sells his shares at the same relationship to intrinsic value that existed when he bought them. For example, if you buy at a 10% premium to intrinsic value; if intrinsic value subsequently grows at 15% a year; and if you then sell at a 10% premium, your own return will correspondingly be 15% compounded. (The calculation assumes that no dividends are paid.) If, however, you buy at a premium and sell at a smaller premium, your results will be somewhat inferior to those achieved by the company. 
      Ideally, the results of every Berkshire shareholder would closely mirror those of the company during his period of ownership. That is why Charlie Munger, Berkshire's Vice Chairman and my partner, and I hope for Berkshire to sell consistently at about intrinsic value. We prefer such steadiness to the value-ignoring volatility of the past two years: In 1989 intrinsic value grew less than did book value, which was up 44%, while the market price rose 85%; in 1990 book value and intrinsic value increased by a small amount, while the market price fell 23%. 
      Berkshire's intrinsic value continues to exceed book value by a substantial margin. We can't tell you the exact differential because intrinsic value is necessarily an estimate; Charlie and I might, in fact, differ by 10% in our appraisals. We do know, however, that we own some exceptional businesses that are worth considerably more than the values at which they are carried on our books. 
      Much of the extra value that exists in our businesses has been created by the managers now running them. Charlie and I feel free to brag about this group because we had nothing to do with developing the skills they possess: These superstars just came that way. Our job is merely to identify talented managers and provide an environment in which they can do their stuff. Having done it, they send their cash to headquarters and we face our only other task: the intelligent deployment of these funds. 
      My own role in operations may best be illustrated by a small tale concerning my granddaughter, Emily, and her fourth birthday party last fall. Attending were other children, adoring relatives, and Beemer the Clown, a local entertainer who includes magic tricks in his act. 
      Beginning these, Beemer asked Emily to help him by waving a "magic wand" over "the box of wonders." Green handkerchiefs went into the box, Emily waved the wand, and Beemer removed blue ones. Loose handkerchiefs went in and, upon a magisterial wave by Emily, emerged knotted. After four such transformations, each more amazing than its predecessor, Emily was unable to contain herself. Her face aglow, she exulted: "Gee, I'm really good at this." 
      And that sums up my contribution to the performance of Berkshire's business magicians - the Blumkins, the Friedman family, Mike Goldberg, the Heldmans, Chuck Huggins, Stan Lipsey and Ralph Schey. They deserve your applause. 

Sources of Reported Earnings 
      The table below shows the major sources of Berkshire's reported earnings. In this presentation, amortization of Goodwill and other major purchase-price accounting adjustments are not charged against the specific businesses to which they apply, but are instead aggregated and shown separately. This procedure lets you view the earnings of our businesses as they would have been reported had we not purchased them. I've explained in past reports why this form of presentation seems to us to be more useful to investors and managers than one utilizing generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), which require purchase-price adjustments to be made on a business-by-business basis. The total net earnings we show in the table are, of course, identical to the GAAP total in our audited financial statements. 
      Much additional information about these businesses is given on pages 39-46, where you also will find our segment earnings reported on a GAAP basis. For information on Wesco's businesses, I urge you to read Charlie Munger's letter, which starts on page 56. His letter also contains the clearest and most insightful discussion of the banking industry that I have seen. 

                                               (000s omitted)               
                                  -----------------------------------------
                                                         Berkshire's Share  
                                                          of Net Earnings  
                                                         (after taxes and  
                                   Pre-Tax Earnings     minority interests)
                                  -------------------   -------------------  
                                    1990       1989       1990       1989
                                  --------   --------   --------   --------
Operating Earnings:
  Insurance Group:
    Underwriting ................ $(26,647)  $(24,400)  $(14,936)  $(12,259)
    Net Investment Income .......  327,048    243,599    282,613    213,642 
  Buffalo News ..................   43,954     46,047     25,981     27,771 
  Fechheimer ....................   12,450     12,621      6,605      6,789 
  Kirby .........................   27,445     26,114     17,613     16,803 
  Nebraska Furniture Mart .......   17,248     17,070      8,485      8,441 
  Scott Fetzer Manufacturing Group  30,378     33,165     18,458     19,996 
  See's Candies .................   39,580     34,235     23,892     20,626 
  Wesco - other than Insurance ..   12,441     13,008      9,676      9,810 
  World Book ....................   31,896     25,583     20,420     16,372 
  Amortization of Goodwill ......   (3,476)    (3,387)    (3,461)    (3,372)
  Other Purchase-Price 
     Accounting Charges .........   (5,951)    (5,740)    (6,856)    (6,668)
  Interest Expense* .............  (76,374)   (42,389)   (49,726)   (27,098)
  Shareholder-Designated 
     Contributions ..............   (5,824)    (5,867)    (3,801)    (3,814)
  Other .........................   58,309     23,755     35,782     12,863 
                                  --------   --------   --------   --------
Operating Earnings ..............  482,477    393,414    370,745    299,902 
Sales of Securities .............   33,989    223,810     23,348    147,575 
                                  --------   --------   --------   --------
Total Earnings - All Entities     $516,466   $617,224   $394,093   $447,477 
                                  ========   ========   ========   ========
*Excludes interest expense of Scott Fetzer Financial Group and Mutual Savings & Loan. 
      We refer you also to pages 47-53, where we have rearranged Berkshire's financial data into four segments. These correspond to the way Charlie and I think about the business and should help you more in estimating Berkshire's intrinsic value than consolidated figures would do. Shown on these pages are balance sheets and earnings statements for: (1) our insurance operations, with their major investment positions itemized; (2) our manufacturing, publishing and retailing businesses, leaving aside certain non- operating assets and purchase-price accounting adjustments; (3) our subsidiaries engaged in finance-type operations, which are Mutual Savings and Scott Fetzer Financial; and (4) an all-other category that includes the non-operating assets (primarily marketable securities) held by the companies in segment (2), all purchase- price accounting adjustments, and various assets and debts of the Wesco and Berkshire parent companies. 
      If you combine the earnings and net worths of these four segments, you will derive totals matching those shown on our GAAP statements. However, I want to emphasize that this four-category presentation does not fall within the purview of our auditors, who in no way bless it. 

"Look-Through" Earnings 
      The term "earnings" has a precise ring to it. And when an earnings figure is accompanied by an unqualified auditor's certificate, a naive reader might think it comparable in certitude to pi, calculated to dozens of decimal places. 
      In reality, however, earnings can be as pliable as putty when a charlatan heads the company reporting them. Eventually truth will surface, but in the meantime a lot of money can change hands. Indeed, some important American fortunes have been created by the monetization of accounting mirages. 
      Funny business in accounting is not new. For connoisseurs of chicanery, I have attached as Appendix A on page 22 a previously unpublished satire on accounting practices written by Ben Graham in 1936. Alas, excesses similar to those he then lampooned have many times since found their way into the financial statements of major American corporations and been duly certified by big-name auditors. Clearly, investors must always keep their guard up and use accounting numbers as a beginning, not an end, in their attempts to calculate true "economic earnings" accruing to them. 
      Berkshire's own reported earnings are misleading in a different, but important, way: We have huge investments in companies ("investees") whose earnings far exceed their dividends and in which we record our share of earnings only to the extent of the dividends we receive. The extreme case is Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. Our 17% share of the company's earnings amounted to more than $83 million last year. Yet only about $530,000 ($600,000 of dividends it paid us less some $70,000 of tax) is counted in Berkshire's GAAP earnings. The residual $82 million-plus stayed with Cap Cities as retained earnings, which work for our benefit but go unrecorded on our books. 
      Our perspective on such "forgotten-but-not-gone" earnings is simple: The way they are accounted for is of no importance, but their ownership and subsequent utilization is all-important. We care not whether the auditors hear a tree fall in the forest; we do care who owns the tree and what's next done with it. 
      When Coca-Cola uses retained earnings to repurchase its shares, the company increases our percentage ownership in what I regard to be the most valuable franchise in the world. (Coke also, of course, uses retained earnings in many other value-enhancing ways.) Instead of repurchasing stock, Coca-Cola could pay those funds to us in dividends, which we could then use to purchase more Coke shares. That would be a less efficient scenario: Because of taxes we would pay on dividend income, we would not be able to increase our proportionate ownership to the degree that Coke can, acting for us. If this less efficient procedure were followed, however, Berkshire would report far greater "earnings." 
      I believe the best way to think about our earnings is in terms of "look-through" results, calculated as follows: Take $250 million, which is roughly our share of the 1990 operating earnings retained by our investees; subtract $30 million, for the incremental taxes we would have owed had that $250 million been paid to us in dividends; and add the remainder, $220 million, to our reported operating earnings of $371 million. Thus our 1990 "look-through earnings" were about $590 million. 
      As I mentioned last year, we hope to have look-through earnings grow about 15% annually. In 1990 we substantially exceeded that rate but in 1991 we will fall far short of it. Our Gillette preferred has been called and we will convert it into common stock on April 1. This will reduce reported earnings by about $35 million annually and look-through earnings by a much smaller, but still significant, amount. Additionally, our media earnings - both direct and look-through - appear sure to decline. Whatever the results, we will post you annually on how we are doing on a look-through basis. 

Non-Insurance Operations 
      Take another look at the figures on page 51, which aggregate the earnings and balance sheets of our non-insurance operations. After-tax earnings on average equity in 1990 were 51%, a result that would have placed the group about 20th on the 1989 Fortune 500. 
      Two factors make this return even more remarkable. First, leverage did not produce it: Almost all our major facilities are owned, not leased, and such small debt as these operations have is basically offset by cash they hold. In fact, if the measurement was return on assets - a calculation that eliminates the effect of debt upon returns - our group would rank in Fortune's top ten. 
      Equally important, our return was not earned from industries, such as cigarettes or network television stations, possessing spectacular economics for all participating in them. Instead it came from a group of businesses operating in such prosaic fields as furniture retailing, candy, vacuum cleaners, and even steel warehousing. The explanation is clear: Our extraordinary returns flow from outstanding operating managers, not fortuitous industry economics. 

Let's look at the larger operations: 
o      It was a poor year for retailing - particularly for big-ticket items - but someone forgot to tell Ike Friedman at Borsheim's. Sales were up 18%. That's both a same-stores and all-stores percentage, since Borsheim's operates but one establishment. 
      But, oh, what an establishment! We can't be sure about the fact (because most fine-jewelry retailers are privately owned) but we believe that this jewelry store does more volume than any other in the U.S., except for Tiffany's New York store. 
      Borsheim's could not do nearly that well if our customers came only from the Omaha metropolitan area, whose population is about 600,000. We have long had a huge percentage of greater Omaha's jewelry business, so growth in that market is necessarily limited. But every year business from non-Midwest customers grows dramatically. Many visit the store in person. A large number of others, however, buy through the mail in a manner you will find interesting. 
      These customers request a jewelry selection of a certain type and value - say, emeralds in the $10,000 -$20,000 range - and we then send them five to ten items meeting their specifications and from which they can pick. Last year we mailed about 1,500 assortments of all kinds, carrying values ranging from under $1,000 to hundreds of thousands of dollars. 
      The selections are sent all over the country, some to people no one at Borsheim's has ever met. (They must always have been well recommended, however.) While the number of mailings in 1990 was a record, Ike has been sending merchandise far and wide for decades. Misanthropes will be crushed to learn how well our "honor-system" works: We have yet to experience a loss from customer dishonesty. 
      We attract business nationwide because we have several advantages that competitors can't match. The most important item in the equation is our operating costs, which run about 18% of sales compared to 40% or so at the typical competitor. (Included in the 18% are occupancy and buying costs, which some public companies include in "cost of goods sold.") Just as Wal-Mart, with its 15% operating costs, sells at prices that high-cost competitors can't touch and thereby constantly increases its market share, so does Borsheim's. What works with diapers works with diamonds. 
      Our low prices create huge volume that in turn allows us to carry an extraordinarily broad inventory of goods, running ten or more times the size of that at the typical fine-jewelry store. Couple our breadth of selection and low prices with superb service and you can understand how Ike and his family have built a national jewelry phenomenon from an Omaha location. 
      And family it is. Ike's crew always includes son Alan and sons-in-law Marvin Cohn and Donald Yale. And when things are busy - that's often - they are joined by Ike's wife, Roz, and his daughters, Janis and Susie. In addition, Fran Blumkin, wife of Louie (Chairman of Nebraska Furniture Mart and Ike's cousin), regularly pitches in. Finally, you'll find Ike's 89-year-old mother, Rebecca, in the store most afternoons, Wall Street Journal in hand. Given a family commitment like this, is it any surprise that Borsheim's runs rings around competitors whose managers are thinking about how soon 5 o'clock will arrive? 

o      While Fran Blumkin was helping the Friedman family set records at Borsheim's, her sons, Irv and Ron, along with husband Louie, were setting records at The Nebraska Furniture Mart. Sales at our one-and-only location were $159 million, up 4% from 1989. Though again the fact can't be conclusively proved, we believe NFM does close to double the volume of any other home furnishings store in the country. 
      The NFM formula for success parallels that of Borsheim's. First, operating costs are rock-bottom - 15% in 1990 against about 40% for Levitz, the country's largest furniture retailer, and 25% for Circuit City Stores, the leading discount retailer of electronics and appliances. Second, NFM's low costs allow the business to price well below all competitors. Indeed, major chains, knowing what they will face, steer clear of Omaha. Third, the huge volume generated by our bargain prices allows us to carry the broadest selection of merchandise available anywhere. 
      Some idea of NFM's merchandising power can be gleaned from a recent report of consumer behavior in Des Moines, which showed that NFM was Number 3 in popularity among 20 furniture retailers serving that city. That may sound like no big deal until you consider that 19 of those retailers are located in Des Moines, whereas our store is 130 miles away. This leaves customers driving a distance equal to that between Washington and Philadelphia in order to shop with us, even though they have a multitude of alternatives next door. In effect, NFM, like Borsheim's, has dramatically expanded the territory it serves - not by the traditional method of opening new stores but rather by creating an irresistible magnet that employs price and selection to pull in the crowds. 
      Last year at the Mart there occurred an historic event: I experienced a counterrevelation. Regular readers of this report know that I have long scorned the boasts of corporate executives about synergy, deriding such claims as the last refuge of scoundrels defending foolish acquisitions. But now I know better: In Berkshire's first synergistic explosion, NFM put a See's candy cart in the store late last year and sold more candy than that moved by some of the full-fledged stores See's operates in California. This success contradicts all tenets of retailing. With the Blumkins, though, the impossible is routine. 

o      At See's, physical volume set a record in 1990 - but only barely and only because of good sales early in the year. After the invasion of Kuwait, mall traffic in the West fell. Our poundage volume at Christmas dropped slightly, though our dollar sales were up because of a 5% price increase. 
      That increase, and better control of expenses, improved profit margins. Against the backdrop of a weak retailing environment, Chuck Huggins delivered outstanding results, as he has in each of the nineteen years we have owned See's. Chuck's imprint on the business - a virtual fanaticism about quality and service - is visible at all of our 225 stores. 
      One happening in 1990 illustrates the close bond between See's and its customers. After 15 years of operation, our store in Albuquerque was endangered: The landlord would not renew our lease, wanting us instead to move to an inferior location in the mall and even so to pay a much higher rent. These changes would have wiped out the store's profit. After extended negotiations got us nowhere, we set a date for closing the store. 
      On her own, the store's manager, Ann Filkins, then took action, urging customers to protest the closing. Some 263 responded by sending letters and making phone calls to See's headquarters in San Francisco, in some cases threatening to boycott the mall. An alert reporter at the Albuquerque paper picked up the story. Supplied with this evidence of a consumer uprising, our landlord offered us a satisfactory deal. (He, too, proved susceptible to a counterrevelation.) 
      Chuck subsequently wrote personal letters of thanks to every loyalist and sent each a gift certificate. He repeated his thanks in a newspaper ad that listed the names of all 263. The sequel: Christmas sales in Albuquerque were up substantially. 

o      Charlie and I were surprised at developments this past year in the media industry, including newspapers such as our Buffalo News. The business showed far more vulnerability to the early stages of a recession than has been the case in the past. The question is whether this erosion is just part of an aberrational cycle - to be fully made up in the next upturn - or whether the business has slipped in a way that permanently reduces intrinsic business values. 
      Since I didn't predict what has happened, you may question the value of my prediction about what will happen. Nevertheless, I'll proffer a judgment: While many media businesses will remain economic marvels in comparison with American industry generally, they will prove considerably less marvelous than I, the industry, or lenders thought would be the case only a few years ago. 
      The reason media businesses have been so outstanding in the past was not physical growth, but rather the unusual pricing power that most participants wielded. Now, however, advertising dollars are growing slowly. In addition, retailers that do little or no media advertising (though they sometimes use the Postal Service) have gradually taken market share in certain merchandise categories. Most important of all, the number of both print and electronic advertising channels has substantially increased. As a consequence, advertising dollars are more widely dispersed and the pricing power of ad vendors has diminished. These circumstances materially reduce the intrinsic value of our major media investments and also the value of our operating unit, Buffalo News - though all remain fine businesses. 
      Notwithstanding the problems, Stan Lipsey's management of the News continues to be superb. During 1990, our earnings held up much better than those of most metropolitan papers, falling only 5%. In the last few months of the year, however, the rate of decrease was far greater. 
      I can safely make two promises about the News in 1991: (1) Stan will again rank at the top among newspaper publishers; and (2) earnings will fall substantially. Despite a slowdown in the demand for newsprint, the price per ton will average significantly more in 1991 and the paper's labor costs will also be considerably higher. Since revenues may meanwhile be down, we face a real squeeze. 
      Profits may be off but our pride in the product remains. We continue to have a larger "news hole" - the portion of the paper devoted to news - than any comparable paper. In 1990, the proportion rose to 52.3% against 50.1% in 1989. Alas, the increase resulted from a decline in advertising pages rather than from a gain in news pages. Regardless of earnings pressures, we will maintain at least a 50% news hole. Cutting product quality is not a proper response to adversity. 

o      The news at Fechheimer, our manufacturer and retailer of uniforms, is all good with one exception: George Heldman, at 69, has decided to retire. I tried to talk him out of it but he had one irrefutable argument: With four other Heldmans - Bob, Fred, Gary and Roger - to carry on, he was leaving us with an abundance of managerial talent. 
      Fechheimer's operating performance improved considerably in 1990, as many of the problems we encountered in integrating the large acquisition we made in 1988 were moderated or solved. However, several unusual items caused the earnings reported in the "Sources" table to be flat. In the retail operation, we continue to add stores and now have 42 in 22 states. Overall, prospects appear excellent for Fechheimer. 

o      At Scott Fetzer, Ralph Schey runs 19 businesses with a mastery few bring to running one. In addition to overseeing three entities listed on page 6 - World Book, Kirby, and Scott Fetzer Manufacturing - Ralph directs a finance operation that earned a record $12.2 million pre-tax in 1990. 
      Were Scott Fetzer an independent company, it would rank close to the top of the Fortune 500 in terms of return on equity, although it is not in businesses that one would expect to be economic champs. The superior results are directly attributable to Ralph. 
      At World Book, earnings improved on a small decrease in unit volume. The costs of our decentralization move were considerably less in 1990 than 1989 and the benefits of decentralization are being realized. World Book remains far and away the leader in United States encyclopedia sales and we are growing internationally, though from a small base. 
      Kirby unit volume grew substantially in 1990 with the help of our new vacuum cleaner, The Generation 3, which was an unqualified success. Earnings did not grow as fast as sales because of both start-up expenditures and "learning-curve" problems we encountered in manufacturing the new product. International business, whose dramatic growth I described last year, had a further 20% sales gain in 1990. With the aid of a recent price increase, we expect excellent earnings at Kirby in 1991. 
      Within the Scott Fetzer Manufacturing Group, Campbell Hausfeld, its largest unit, had a particularly fine year. This company, the country's leading producer of small and medium-sized air compressors, achieved record sales of $109 million, more than 30% of which came from products introduced during the last five years. 
* * * * * * * * * * * * 
      In looking at the figures for our non-insurance operations, you will see that net worth increased by only $47 million in 1990 although earnings were $133 million. This does not mean that our managers are in any way skimping on investments that strengthen their business franchises or that promote growth. Indeed, they diligently pursue both goals. 
      But they also never deploy capital without good reason. The result: In the past five years they have funneled well over 80% of their earnings to Charlie and me for use in new business and investment opportunities. 

Insurance Operations 
      Shown below is an updated version of our usual table presenting key figures for the property-casualty insurance industry: 
          Yearly Change   Combined Ratio     Yearly Change   Inflation Rate 
           in Premiums   After Policyholder   in Incurred     Measured by  
           Written (%)       Dividends         Losses (%)   GNP Deflator (%)
          -------------  ------------------  -------------  ----------------
1981 .....      3.8            106.0            6.5               9.6
1982 .....      3.7            109.6            8.4               6.5
1983 .....      5.0            112.0            6.8               3.8
1984 .....      8.5            118.0           16.9               3.8
1985 .....     22.1            116.3           16.1               3.0
1986 .....     22.2            108.0           13.5               2.6
1987 .....      9.4            104.6            7.8               3.1
1988 .....      4.4            105.4            5.5               3.3
1989 (Revised)  3.2            109.2            7.7               4.1
1990(Est.)      4.5            109.8            5.0               4.1
Source: A.M. Best Co. 
      The combined ratio represents total insurance costs (losses incurred plus expenses) compared to revenue from premiums: A ratio below 100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 100 indicates a loss. The higher the ratio, the worse the year. When the investment income that an insurer earns from holding policyholders' funds ("the float") is taken into account, a combined ratio in the 107 - 111 range typically produces an overall breakeven result, exclusive of earnings on the funds provided by shareholders. 
      For the reasons laid out in previous reports, we expect the industry's incurred losses to grow at an average of 10% annually, even in periods when general inflation runs considerably lower. (Over the last 25 years, incurred losses have in reality grown at a still faster rate, 11%.) If premium growth meanwhile materially lags that 10% rate, underwriting losses will mount, though the industry's tendency to under-reserve when business turns bad may obscure their size for a time. 
      Last year premium growth fell far short of the required 10% and underwriting results therefore worsened. (In our table, however, the severity of the deterioration in 1990 is masked because the industry's 1989 losses from Hurricane Hugo caused the ratio for that year to be somewhat above trendline.) The combined ratio will again increase in 1991, probably by about two points. 
      Results will improve only when most insurance managements become so fearful that they run from business, even though it can be done at much higher prices than now exist. At some point these managements will indeed get the message: The most important thing to do when you find yourself in a hole is to stop digging. But so far that point hasn't gotten across: Insurance managers continue to dig - sullenly but vigorously. 
      The picture would change quickly if a major physical or financial catastrophe were to occur. Absent such a shock, one to two years will likely pass before underwriting losses become large enough to raise management fear to a level that would spur major price increases. When that moment arrives, Berkshire will be ready - both financially and psychologically - to write huge amounts of business. 
      In the meantime, our insurance volume continues to be small but satisfactory. In the next section of this report we will give you a framework for evaluating insurance results. From that discussion, you will gain an understanding of why I am so enthusiastic about the performance of our insurance manager, Mike Goldberg, and his cadre of stars, Rod Eldred, Dinos Iordanou, Ajit Jain, and Don Wurster. 
      In assessing our insurance results over the next few years, you should be aware of one type of business we are pursuing that could cause them to be unusually volatile. If this line of business expands, as it may, our underwriting experience will deviate from the trendline you might expect: In most years we will somewhat exceed expectations and in an occasional year we will fall far below them. 
      The volatility I predict reflects the fact that we have become a large seller of insurance against truly major catastrophes ("super-cats"), which could for example be hurricanes, windstorms or earthquakes. The buyers of these policies are reinsurance companies that themselves are in the business of writing catastrophe coverage for primary insurers and that wish to "lay off," or rid themselves, of part of their exposure to catastrophes of special severity. Because the need for these buyers to collect on such a policy will only arise at times of extreme stress - perhaps even chaos - in the insurance business, they seek financially strong sellers. And here we have a major competitive advantage: In the industry, our strength is unmatched. 
      A typical super-cat contract is complicated. But in a plain- vanilla instance we might write a one-year, $10 million policy providing that the buyer, a reinsurer, would be paid that sum only if a catastrophe caused two results: (1) specific losses for the reinsurer above a threshold amount; and (2) aggregate losses for the insurance industry of, say, more than $5 billion. Under virtually all circumstances, loss levels that satisfy the second condition will also have caused the first to be met. 
      For this $10 million policy, we might receive a premium of, say, $3 million. Say, also, that we take in annual premiums of $100 million from super-cat policies of all kinds. In that case we are very likely in any given year to report either a profit of close to $100 million or a loss of well over $200 million. Note that we are not spreading risk as insurers typically do; we are concentrating it. Therefore, our yearly combined ratio on this business will almost never fall in the industry range of 100 - 120, but will instead be close to either zero or 300%. 
      Most insurers are financially unable to tolerate such swings. And if they have the ability to do so, they often lack the desire. They may back away, for example, because they write gobs of primary property insurance that would deliver them dismal results at the very time they would be experiencing major losses on super- cat reinsurance. In addition, most corporate managements believe that their shareholders dislike volatility in results. 
      We can take a different tack: Our business in primary property insurance is small and we believe that Berkshire shareholders, if properly informed, can handle unusual volatility in profits so long as the swings carry with them the prospect of superior long-term results. (Charlie and I always have preferred a lumpy 15% return to a smooth 12%.) 
      We want to emphasize three points: (1) While we expect our super-cat business to produce satisfactory results over, say, a decade, we're sure it will produce absolutely terrible results in at least an occasional year; (2) Our expectations can be based on little more than subjective judgments - for this kind of insurance, historical loss data are of very limited value to us as we decide what rates to charge today; and (3) Though we expect to write significant quantities of super-cat business, we will do so only at prices we believe to be commensurate with risk. If competitors become optimistic, our volume will fall. This insurance has, in fact, tended in recent years to be woefully underpriced; most sellers have left the field on stretchers. 
      At the moment, we believe Berkshire to be the largest U.S. writer of super-cat business. So when a major quake occurs in an urban area or a winter storm rages across Europe, light a candle for us. 

Measuring Insurance Performance 
      In the previous section I mentioned "float," the funds of others that insurers, in the conduct of their business, temporarily hold. Because these funds are available to be invested, the typical property-casualty insurer can absorb losses and expenses that exceed premiums by 7% to 11% and still be able to break even on its business. Again, this calculation excludes the earnings the insurer realizes on net worth - that is, on the funds provided by shareholders. 
      However, many exceptions to this 7% to 11% range exist. For example, insurance covering losses to crops from hail damage produces virtually no float at all. Premiums on this kind of business are paid to the insurer just prior to the time hailstorms are a threat, and if a farmer sustains a loss he will be paid almost immediately. Thus, a combined ratio of 100 for crop hail insurance produces no profit for the insurer. 
      At the other extreme, malpractice insurance covering the potential liabilities of doctors, lawyers and accountants produces a very high amount of float compared to annual premium volume. The float materializes because claims are often brought long after the alleged wrongdoing takes place and because their payment may be still further delayed by lengthy litigation. The industry calls malpractice and certain other kinds of liability insurance "long- tail" business, in recognition of the extended period during which insurers get to hold large sums that in the end will go to claimants and their lawyers (and to the insurer's lawyers as well). 
      In long-tail situations a combined ratio of 115 (or even more) can prove profitable, since earnings produced by the float will exceed the 15% by which claims and expenses overrun premiums. The catch, though, is that "long-tail" means exactly that: Liability business written in a given year and presumed at first to have produced a combined ratio of 115 may eventually smack the insurer with 200, 300 or worse when the years have rolled by and all claims have finally been settled. 
      The pitfalls of this business mandate an operating principle that too often is ignored: Though certain long-tail lines may prove profitable at combined ratios of 110 or 115, insurers will invariably find it unprofitable to price using those ratios as targets. Instead, prices must provide a healthy margin of safety against the societal trends that are forever springing expensive surprises on the insurance industry. Setting a target of 100 can itself result in heavy losses; aiming for 110 - 115 is business suicide. 
      All of that said, what should the measure of an insurer's profitability be? Analysts and managers customarily look to the combined ratio - and it's true that this yardstick usually is a good indicator of where a company ranks in profitability. We believe a better measure, however, to be a comparison of underwriting loss to float developed. 
      This loss/float ratio, like any statistic used in evaluating insurance results, is meaningless over short time periods: Quarterly underwriting figures and even annual ones are too heavily based on estimates to be much good. But when the ratio takes in a period of years, it gives a rough indication of the cost of funds generated by insurance operations. A low cost of funds signifies a good business; a high cost translates into a poor business. 
      On the next page we show the underwriting loss, if any, of our insurance group in each year since we entered the business and relate that bottom line to the average float we have held during the year. From this data we have computed a "cost of funds developed from insurance." 

                  (1)            (2)                           Yearend Yield
              Underwriting                     Approximate      on Long-Term
                  Loss       Average Float    Cost of Funds     Govt. Bonds
              ------------   -------------   ---------------   -------------
                    (In $ Millions)         (Ratio of 1 to 2)

1967 .........   profit           $17.3       less than zero       5.50%
1968 .........   profit            19.9       less than zero       5.90%
1969 .........   profit            23.4       less than zero       6.79%
1970 .........    $0.37            32.4                1.14%       6.25%
1971 .........   profit            52.5       less than zero       5.81%
1972 .........   profit            69.5       less than zero       5.82%
1973 .........   profit            73.3       less than zero       7.27%
1974 .........     7.36            79.1                9.30%       8.13%
1975 .........    11.35            87.6               12.96%       8.03%
1976 .........   profit           102.6       less than zero       7.30%
1977 .........   profit           139.0       less than zero       7.97%
1978 .........   profit           190.4       less than zero       8.93%
1979 .........   profit           227.3       less than zero      10.08%
1980 .........   profit           237.0       less than zero      11.94%
1981 .........   profit           228.4       less than zero      13.61%
1982 .........    21.56           220.6                9.77%      10.64%
1983 .........    33.87           231.3               14.64%      11.84%
1984 .........    48.06           253.2               18.98%      11.58%
1985 .........    44.23           390.2               11.34%       9.34%
1986 .........    55.84           797.5                7.00%       7.60%
1987 .........    55.43         1,266.7                4.38%       8.95%
1988 .........    11.08         1,497.7                0.74%       9.00%
1989 .........    24.40         1,541.3                1.58%       7.97%
1990 .........    26.65         1,637.3                1.63%       8.24%
      The float figures are derived from the total of loss reserves, loss adjustment expense reserves and unearned premium reserves minus agents' balances, prepaid acquisition costs and deferred charges applicable to assumed reinsurance. At some insurers other items should enter into the calculation, but in our case these are unimportant and have been ignored. 
      During 1990 we held about $1.6 billion of float slated eventually to find its way into the hands of others. The underwriting loss we sustained during the year was $27 million and thus our insurance operation produced funds for us at a cost of about 1.6%. As the table shows, we managed in some years to underwrite at a profit and in those instances our cost of funds was less than zero. In other years, such as 1984, we paid a very high price for float. In 19 years out of the 24 we have been in insurance, though, we have developed funds at a cost below that paid by the government. 
      There are two important qualifications to this calculation. First, the fat lady has yet to gargle, let alone sing, and we won't know our true 1967 - 1990 cost of funds until all losses from this period have been settled many decades from now. Second, the value of the float to shareholders is somewhat undercut by the fact that they must put up their own funds to support the insurance operation and are subject to double taxation on the investment income these funds earn. Direct investments would be more tax-efficient. 
      The tax penalty that indirect investments impose on shareholders is in fact substantial. Though the calculation is necessarily imprecise, I would estimate that the owners of the average insurance company would find the tax penalty adds about one percentage point to their cost of float. I also think that approximates the correct figure for Berkshire. 
      Figuring a cost of funds for an insurance business allows anyone analyzing it to determine whether the operation has a positive or negative value for shareholders. If this cost (including the tax penalty) is higher than that applying to alternative sources of funds, the value is negative. If the cost is lower, the value is positive - and if the cost is significantly lower, the insurance business qualifies as a very valuable asset. 
      So far Berkshire has fallen into the significantly-lower camp. Even more dramatic are the numbers at GEICO, in which our ownership interest is now 48% and which customarily operates at an underwriting profit. GEICO's growth has generated an ever-larger amount of funds for investment that have an effective cost of considerably less than zero. Essentially, GEICO's policyholders, in aggregate, pay the company interest on the float rather than the other way around. (But handsome is as handsome does: GEICO's unusual profitability results from its extraordinary operating efficiency and its careful classification of risks, a package that in turn allows rock-bottom prices for policyholders.) 
      Many well-known insurance companies, on the other hand, incur an underwriting loss/float cost that, combined with the tax penalty, produces negative results for owners. In addition, these companies, like all others in the industry, are vulnerable to catastrophe losses that could exceed their reinsurance protection and take their cost of float right off the chart. Unless these companies can materially improve their underwriting performance - and history indicates that is an almost impossible task - their shareholders will experience results similar to those borne by the owners of a bank that pays a higher rate of interest on deposits than it receives on loans. 
      All in all, the insurance business has treated us very well. We have expanded our float at a cost that on the average is reasonable, and we have further prospered because we have earned good returns on these low-cost funds. Our shareholders, true, have incurred extra taxes, but they have been more than compensated for this cost (so far) by the benefits produced by the float. 
      A particularly encouraging point about our record is that it was achieved despite some colossal mistakes made by your Chairman prior to Mike Goldberg's arrival. Insurance offers a host of opportunities for error, and when opportunity knocked, too often I answered. Many years later, the bills keep arriving for these mistakes: In the insurance business, there is no statute of limitations on stupidity. 
      The intrinsic value of our insurance business will always be far more difficult to calculate than the value of, say, our candy or newspaper companies. By any measure, however, the business is worth far more than its carrying value. Furthermore, despite the problems this operation periodically hands us, it is the one - among all the fine businesses we own - that has the greatest potential. 

Marketable Securities 
      Below we list our common stock holdings having a value of over $100 million. A small portion of these investments belongs to subsidiaries of which Berkshire owns less than 100%. 

                                                                 12/31/90
  Shares    Company                                  Cost         Market 
  ------    -------                               ----------    ----------
                                                       (000s omitted)
 3,000,000  Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. ............ $  517,500    $1,377,375
46,700,000  The Coca-Cola Co. ...................  1,023,920     2,171,550
 2,400,000  Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. ....     71,729       117,000	
 6,850,000  GEICO Corp. .........................     45,713     1,110,556
 1,727,765  The Washington Post Company .........      9,731       342,097
 5,000,000  Wells Fargo & Company ...............    289,431       289,375
      Lethargy bordering on sloth remains the cornerstone of our investment style: This year we neither bought nor sold a share of five of our six major holdings. The exception was Wells Fargo, a superbly-managed, high-return banking operation in which we increased our ownership to just under 10%, the most we can own without the approval of the Federal Reserve Board. About one-sixth of our position was bought in 1989, the rest in 1990. 
      The banking business is no favorite of ours. When assets are twenty times equity - a common ratio in this industry - mistakes that involve only a small portion of assets can destroy a major portion of equity. And mistakes have been the rule rather than the exception at many major banks. Most have resulted from a managerial failing that we described last year when discussing the "institutional imperative:" the tendency of executives to mindlessly imitate the behavior of their peers, no matter how foolish it may be to do so. In their lending, many bankers played follow-the-leader with lemming-like zeal; now they are experiencing a lemming-like fate. 
      Because leverage of 20:1 magnifies the effects of managerial strengths and weaknesses, we have no interest in purchasing shares of a poorly-managed bank at a "cheap" price. Instead, our only interest is in buying into well-managed banks at fair prices. 
      With Wells Fargo, we think we have obtained the best managers in the business, Carl Reichardt and Paul Hazen. In many ways the combination of Carl and Paul reminds me of another - Tom Murphy and Dan Burke at Capital Cities/ABC. First, each pair is stronger than the sum of its parts because each partner understands, trusts and admires the other. Second, both managerial teams pay able people well, but abhor having a bigger head count than is needed. Third, both attack costs as vigorously when profits are at record levels as when they are under pressure. Finally, both stick with what they understand and let their abilities, not their egos, determine what they attempt. (Thomas J. Watson Sr. of IBM followed the same rule: "I'm no genius," he said. "I'm smart in spots - but I stay around those spots.") 
      Our purchases of Wells Fargo in 1990 were helped by a chaotic market in bank stocks. The disarray was appropriate: Month by month the foolish loan decisions of once well-regarded banks were put on public display. As one huge loss after another was unveiled - often on the heels of managerial assurances that all was well - investors understandably concluded that no bank's numbers were to be trusted. Aided by their flight from bank stocks, we purchased our 10% interest in Wells Fargo for $290 million, less than five times after-tax earnings, and less than three times pre-tax earnings. 
      Wells Fargo is big - it has $56 billion in assets - and has been earning more than 20% on equity and 1.25% on assets. Our purchase of one-tenth of the bank may be thought of as roughly equivalent to our buying 100% of a $5 billion bank with identical financial characteristics. But were we to make such a purchase, we would have to pay about twice the $290 million we paid for Wells Fargo. Moreover, that $5 billion bank, commanding a premium price, would present us with another problem: We would not be able to find a Carl Reichardt to run it. In recent years, Wells Fargo executives have been more avidly recruited than any others in the banking business; no one, however, has been able to hire the dean. 
      Of course, ownership of a bank - or about any other business - is far from riskless. California banks face the specific risk of a major earthquake, which might wreak enough havoc on borrowers to in turn destroy the banks lending to them. A second risk is systemic - the possibility of a business contraction or financial panic so severe that it would endanger almost every highly-leveraged institution, no matter how intelligently run. Finally, the market's major fear of the moment is that West Coast real estate values will tumble because of overbuilding and deliver huge losses to banks that have financed the expansion. Because it is a leading real estate lender, Wells Fargo is thought to be particularly vulnerable. 
      None of these eventualities can be ruled out. The probability of the first two occurring, however, is low and even a meaningful drop in real estate values is unlikely to cause major problems for well-managed institutions. Consider some mathematics: Wells Fargo currently earns well over $1 billion pre-tax annually after expensing more than $300 million for loan losses. If 10% of all $48 billion of the bank's loans - not just its real estate loans - were hit by problems in 1991, and these produced losses (including foregone interest) averaging 30% of principal, the company would roughly break even. 
      A year like that - which we consider only a low-level possibility, not a likelihood - would not distress us. In fact, at Berkshire we would love to acquire businesses or invest in capital projects that produced no return for a year, but that could then be expected to earn 20% on growing equity. Nevertheless, fears of a California real estate disaster similar to that experienced in New England caused the price of Wells Fargo stock to fall almost 50% within a few months during 1990. Even though we had bought some shares at the prices prevailing before the fall, we welcomed the decline because it allowed us to pick up many more shares at the new, panic prices. 
      Investors who expect to be ongoing buyers of investments throughout their lifetimes should adopt a similar attitude toward market fluctuations; instead many illogically become euphoric when stock prices rise and unhappy when they fall. They show no such confusion in their reaction to food prices: Knowing they are forever going to be buyers of food, they welcome falling prices and deplore price increases. (It's the seller of food who doesn't like declining prices.) Similarly, at the Buffalo News we would cheer lower prices for newsprint - even though it would mean marking down the value of the large inventory of newsprint we always keep on hand - because we know we are going to be perpetually buying the product. 
      Identical reasoning guides our thinking about Berkshire's investments. We will be buying businesses - or small parts of businesses, called stocks - year in, year out as long as I live (and longer, if Berkshire's directors attend the seances I have scheduled). Given these intentions, declining prices for businesses benefit us, and rising prices hurt us. 
      The most common cause of low prices is pessimism - some times pervasive, some times specific to a company or industry. We want to do business in such an environment, not because we like pessimism but because we like the prices it produces. It's optimism that is the enemy of the rational buyer. 
      None of this means, however, that a business or stock is an intelligent purchase simply because it is unpopular; a contrarian approach is just as foolish as a follow-the-crowd strategy. What's required is thinking rather than polling. Unfortunately, Bertrand Russell's observation about life in general applies with unusual force in the financial world: "Most men would rather die than think. Many do." 
* * * * * * * * * * * * 
      Our other major portfolio change last year was large additions to our holdings of RJR Nabisco bonds, securities that we first bought in late 1989. At yearend 1990 we had $440 million invested in these securities, an amount that approximated market value. (As I write this, however, their market value has risen by more than $150 million.) 
      Just as buying into the banking business is unusual for us, so is the purchase of below-investment-grade bonds. But opportunities that interest us and that are also large enough to have a worthwhile impact on Berkshire's results are rare. Therefore, we will look at any category of investment, so long as we understand the business we're buying into and believe that price and value may differ significantly. (Woody Allen, in another context, pointed out the advantage of open-mindedness: "I can't understand why more people aren't bi-sexual because it doubles your chances for a date on Saturday night.") 
      In the past we have bought a few below-investment-grade bonds with success, though these were all old-fashioned "fallen angels" - bonds that were initially of investment grade but that were downgraded when the issuers fell on bad times. In the 1984 annual report we described our rationale for buying one fallen angel, the Washington Public Power Supply System. 
      A kind of bastardized fallen angel burst onto the investment scene in the 1980s - "junk bonds" that were far below investment- grade when issued. As the decade progressed, new offerings of manufactured junk became ever junkier and ultimately the predictable outcome occurred: Junk bonds lived up to their name. In 1990 - even before the recession dealt its blows - the financial sky became dark with the bodies of failing corporations. 
      The disciples of debt assured us that this collapse wouldn't happen: Huge debt, we were told, would cause operating managers to focus their efforts as never before, much as a dagger mounted on the steering wheel of a car could be expected to make its driver proceed with intensified care. We'll acknowledge that such an attention-getter would produce a very alert driver. But another certain consequence would be a deadly - and unnecessary - accident if the car hit even the tiniest pothole or sliver of ice. The roads of business are riddled with potholes; a plan that requires dodging them all is a plan for disaster. 
      In the final chapter of The Intelligent Investor Ben Graham forcefully rejected the dagger thesis: "Confronted with a challenge to distill the secret of sound investment into three words, we venture the motto, Margin of Safety." Forty-two years after reading that, I still think those are the right three words. The failure of investors to heed this simple message caused them staggering losses as the 1990s began. 
      At the height of the debt mania, capital structures were concocted that guaranteed failure: In some cases, so much debt was issued that even highly favorable business results could not produce the funds to service it. One particularly egregious "kill- 'em-at-birth" case a few years back involved the purchase of a mature television station in Tampa, bought with so much debt that the interest on it exceeded the station's gross revenues. Even if you assume that all labor, programs and services were donated rather than purchased, this capital structure required revenues to explode - or else the station was doomed to go broke. (Many of the bonds that financed the purchase were sold to now-failed savings and loan associations; as a taxpayer, you are picking up the tab for this folly.) 
      All of this seems impossible now. When these misdeeds were done, however, dagger-selling investment bankers pointed to the "scholarly" research of academics, which reported that over the years the higher interest rates received from low-grade bonds had more than compensated for their higher rate of default. Thus, said the friendly salesmen, a diversified portfolio of junk bonds would produce greater net returns than would a portfolio of high-grade bonds. (Beware of past-performance "proofs" in finance: If history books were the key to riches, the Forbes 400 would consist of librarians.) 
      There was a flaw in the salesmen's logic - one that a first- year student in statistics is taught to recognize. An assumption was being made that the universe of newly-minted junk bonds was identical to the universe of low-grade fallen angels and that, therefore, the default experience of the latter group was meaningful in predicting the default experience of the new issues. (That was an error similar to checking the historical death rate from Kool-Aid before drinking the version served at Jonestown.) 
      The universes were of course dissimilar in several vital respects. For openers, the manager of a fallen angel almost invariably yearned to regain investment-grade status and worked toward that goal. The junk-bond operator was usually an entirely different breed. Behaving much as a heroin user might, he devoted his energies not to finding a cure for his debt-ridden condition, but rather to finding another fix. Additionally, the fiduciary sensitivities of the executives managing the typical fallen angel were often, though not always, more finely developed than were those of the junk-bond-issuing financiopath. 
      Wall Street cared little for such distinctions. As usual, the Street's enthusiasm for an idea was proportional not to its merit, but rather to the revenue it would produce. Mountains of junk bonds were sold by those who didn't care to those who didn't think - and there was no shortage of either. 
      Junk bonds remain a mine field, even at prices that today are often a small fraction of issue price. As we said last year, we have never bought a new issue of a junk bond. (The only time to buy these is on a day with no "y" in it.) We are, however, willing to look at the field, now that it is in disarray. 
      In the case of RJR Nabisco, we feel the Company's credit is considerably better than was generally perceived for a while and that the yield we receive, as well as the potential for capital gain, more than compensates for the risk we incur (though that is far from nil). RJR has made asset sales at favorable prices, has added major amounts of equity, and in general is being run well. 
      However, as we survey the field, most low-grade bonds still look unattractive. The handiwork of the Wall Street of the 1980s is even worse than we had thought: Many important businesses have been mortally wounded. We will, though, keep looking for opportunities as the junk market continues to unravel. 

Convertible Preferred Stocks 
      We continue to hold the convertible preferred stocks described in earlier reports: $700 million of Salomon Inc, $600 million of The Gillette Company, $358 million of USAir Group, Inc. and $300 million of Champion International Corp. Our Gillette holdings will be converted into 12 million shares of common stock on April 1. Weighing interest rates, credit quality and prices of the related common stocks, we can assess our holdings in Salomon and Champion at yearend 1990 as worth about what we paid, Gillette as worth somewhat more, and USAir as worth substantially less. 
      In making the USAir purchase, your Chairman displayed exquisite timing: I plunged into the business at almost the exact moment that it ran into severe problems. (No one pushed me; in tennis parlance, I committed an "unforced error.") The company's troubles were brought on both by industry conditions and by the post-merger difficulties it encountered in integrating Piedmont, an affliction I should have expected since almost all airline mergers have been followed by operational turmoil. 
      In short order, Ed Colodny and Seth Schofield resolved the second problem: The airline now gets excellent marks for service. Industry-wide problems have proved to be far more serious. Since our purchase, the economics of the airline industry have deteriorated at an alarming pace, accelerated by the kamikaze pricing tactics of certain carriers. The trouble this pricing has produced for all carriers illustrates an important truth: In a business selling a commodity-type product, it's impossible to be a lot smarter than your dumbest competitor. 
      However, unless the industry is decimated during the next few years, our USAir investment should work out all right. Ed and Seth have decisively addressed the current turbulence by making major changes in operations. Even so, our investment is now less secure than at the time I made it. 
      Our convertible preferred stocks are relatively simple securities, yet I should warn you that, if the past is any guide, you may from time to time read inaccurate or misleading statements about them. Last year, for example, several members of the press calculated the value of all our preferreds as equal to that of the common stock into which they are convertible. By their logic, that is, our Salomon preferred, convertible into common at $38, would be worth 60% of face value if Salomon common were selling at $22.80. But there is a small problem with this line of reasoning: Using it, one must conclude that all of the value of a convertible preferred resides in the conversion privilege and that the value of a non-convertible preferred of Salomon would be zero, no matter what its coupon or terms for redemption. 
      The point you should keep in mind is that most of the value of our convertible preferreds is derived from their fixed-income characteristics. That means the securities cannot be worth less than the value they would possess as non-convertible preferreds and may be worth more because of their conversion options. 
* * * * * * * * * * * * 
      I deeply regret having to end this section of the report with a note about my friend, Colman Mockler, Jr., CEO of Gillette, who died in January. No description better fitted Colman than "gentleman" - a word signifying integrity, courage and modesty. Couple these qualities with the humor and exceptional business ability that Colman possessed and you can understand why I thought it an undiluted pleasure to work with him and why I, and all others who knew him, will miss Colman so much. 
      A few days before Colman died, Gillette was richly praised in a Forbes cover story. Its theme was simple: The company's success in shaving products has come not from marketing savvy (though it exhibits that talent repeatedly) but has instead resulted from its devotion to quality. This mind-set has caused it to consistently focus its energies on coming up with something better, even though its existing products already ranked as the class of the field. In so depicting Gillette, Forbes in fact painted a portrait of Colman. 

Help! Help! 
      Regular readers know that I shamelessly utilize the annual letter in an attempt to acquire businesses for Berkshire. And, as we constantly preach at the Buffalo News, advertising does work: Several businesses have knocked on our door because someone has read in these pages of our interest in making acquisitions. (Any good ad salesman will tell you that trying to sell something without advertising is like winking at a girl in the dark.) 
      In Appendix B (on pages 26-27) I've reproduced the essence of a letter I wrote a few years back to the owner/manager of a desirable business. If you have no personal connection with a business that might be of interest to us but have a friend who does, perhaps you can pass this report along to him. 
      Here's the sort of business we are looking for: 
      (1) Large purchases (at least $10 million of after-tax earnings), 
      (2) Demonstrated consistent earning power (future projections are of little interest to us, nor are "turnaround" situations), 
      (3) Businesses earning good returns on equity while employing little or no debt, 
      (4) Management in place (we can't supply it), 
      (5) Simple businesses (if there's lots of technology, we won't understand it), 
      (6) An offering price (we don't want to waste our time or that of the seller by talking, even preliminarily, about a transaction when price is unknown). 
      We will not engage in unfriendly takeovers. We can promise complete confidentiality and a very fast answer - customarily within five minutes - as to whether we're interested. We prefer to buy for cash, but will consider issuing stock when we receive as much in intrinsic business value as we give. 
      Our favorite form of purchase is one fitting the Blumkin- Friedman-Heldman mold. In cases like these, the company's owner- managers wish to generate significant amounts of cash, sometimes for themselves, but often for their families or inactive shareholders. At the same time, these managers wish to remain significant owners who continue to run their companies just as they have in the past. We think we offer a particularly good fit for owners with such objectives. We invite potential sellers to check us out by contacting people with whom we have done business in the past. 
      Charlie and I frequently get approached about acquisitions that don't come close to meeting our tests: We've found that if you advertise an interest in buying collies, a lot of people will call hoping to sell you their cocker spaniels. A line from a country song expresses our feeling about new ventures, turnarounds, or auction-like sales: "When the phone don't ring, you'll know it's me." 
      Besides being interested in the purchase of businesses as described above, we are also interested in the negotiated purchase of large, but not controlling, blocks of stock comparable to those we hold in Capital Cities, Salomon, Gillette, USAir, and Champion. We are not interested, however, in receiving suggestions about purchases we might make in the general stock market. 

Miscellaneous 
      Ken Chace has decided not to stand for reelection as a director at our upcoming annual meeting. We have no mandatory retirement age for directors at Berkshire (and won't!), but Ken, at 75 and living in Maine, simply decided to cut back his activities. 
      Ken was my immediate choice to run the textile operation after Buffett Partnership, Ltd. assumed control of Berkshire early in 1965. Although I made an economic mistake in sticking with the textile business, I made no mistake in choosing Ken: He ran the operation well, he was always 100% straight with me about its problems, and he generated the funds that allowed us to diversify into insurance. 
      My wife, Susan, will be nominated to succeed Ken. She is now the second largest shareholder of Berkshire and if she outlives me will inherit all of my stock and effectively control the company. She knows, and agrees, with my thoughts on successor management and also shares my view that neither Berkshire nor its subsidiary businesses and important investments should be sold simply because some very high bid is received for one or all. 
      I feel strongly that the fate of our businesses and their managers should not depend on my health - which, it should be added, is excellent - and I have planned accordingly. Neither my estate plan nor that of my wife is designed to preserve the family fortune; instead, both are aimed at preserving the character of Berkshire and returning the fortune to society. 
      Were I to die tomorrow, you could be sure of three things: (1) None of my stock would have to be sold; (2) Both a controlling shareholder and a manager with philosophies similar to mine would follow me; and (3) Berkshire's earnings would increase by $1 million annually, since Charlie would immediately sell our corporate jet, The Indefensible (ignoring my wish that it be buried with me). 
* * * * * * * * * * * * 
      About 97.3% of all eligible shares participated in Berkshire's 1990 shareholder-designated contributions program. Contributions made through the program were $5.8 million, and 2,600 charities were recipients. 
      We suggest that new shareholders read the description of our shareholder-designated contributions program that appears on pages 54-55. To participate in future programs, you must make sure your shares are registered in the name of the actual owner, not in the nominee name of a broker, bank or depository. Shares not so registered on August 31, 1991 will be ineligible for the 1991 program. 
      In addition to the shareholder-designated contributions that Berkshire distributes, managers of our operating businesses make contributions, including merchandise, averaging about $1.5 million annually. These contributions support local charities, such as The United Way, and produce roughly commensurate benefits for our businesses. 
      However, neither our operating managers nor officers of the parent company use Berkshire funds to make contributions to broad national programs or charitable activities of special personal interest to them, except to the extent they do so as shareholders. If your employees, including your CEO, wish to give to their alma maters or other institutions to which they feel a personal attachment, we believe they should use their own money, not yours. 
* * * * * * * * * * * * 
      The annual meeting this year will be held at the Orpheum Theater in downtown Omaha at 9:30 a.m. on Monday, April 29, 1991. Attendance last year grew to a record 1,300, about a 100-fold increase from ten years ago. 
      We recommend getting your hotel reservations early at one of these hotels: (1) The Radisson-Redick Tower, a small (88 rooms) but nice hotel across the street from the Orpheum; (2) the much larger Red Lion Hotel, located about a five-minute walk from the Orpheum; or (3) the Marriott, located in West Omaha about 100 yards from Borsheim's and a twenty minute drive from downtown. We will have buses at the Marriott that will leave at 8:30 and 8:45 for the meeting, and return after it ends. 
      Charlie and I always enjoy the meeting, and we hope you can make it. The quality of our shareholders is reflected in the quality of the questions we get: We have never attended an annual meeting anywhere that features such a consistently high level of intelligent, owner-related questions. 
      An attachment to our proxy material explains how you can obtain the card you will need for admission to the meeting. Because weekday parking can be tight around the Orpheum, we have lined up a number of nearby lots for our shareholders to use. The attachment also contains information about them. 
      As usual, we will have buses to take you to Nebraska Furniture Mart and Borsheim's after the meeting and to take you to downtown hotels or to the airport later. I hope that you will allow plenty of time to fully explore the attractions of both stores. Those of you arriving early can visit the Furniture Mart any day of the week; it is open from 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. on Saturdays, and from noon to 5:30 p.m. on Sundays. While there, stop at the See's Candy cart and see for yourself the dawn of synergism at Berkshire. 
      Borsheim's normally is closed on Sunday, but we will open for shareholders and their guests from noon to 6 p.m. on Sunday, April 28. At our Sunday opening last year you made Ike very happy: After totaling the day's volume, he suggested to me that we start holding annual meetings quarterly. Join us at Borsheim's even if you just come to watch; it's a show you shouldn't miss. 
      Last year the first question at the annual meeting was asked by 11-year-old Nicholas Kenner, a third-generation shareholder from New York City. Nicholas plays rough: "How come the stock is down?" he fired at me. My answer was not memorable. 
      We hope that other business engagements won't keep Nicholas away from this year's meeting. If he attends, he will be offered the chance to again ask the first question; Charlie and I want to tackle him while we're fresh. This year, however, it's Charlie's turn to answer. 


March 1, 1991

Warren E. Buffett
Chairman of the Board






APPENDIX A 


U. S. STEEL ANNOUNCES SWEEPING MODERNIZATION SCHEME*




* An unpublished satire by Ben Graham, written in 1936 and given by the author to Warren Buffett in 1954.



           Myron C. Taylor, Chairman of U. S. Steel Corporation, today announced the long awaited plan for completely modernizing the world's largest industrial enterprise. Contrary to expectations, no changes will be made in the company's manufacturing or selling policies. Instead, the bookkeeping system is to be entirely revamped. By adopting and further improving a number of modern accounting and financial devices the corporation's earning power will be amazingly transformed. Even under the subnormal conditions of 1935, it is estimated that the new bookkeeping methods would have yielded a reported profit of close to $50 per share on the common stock. The scheme of improvement is the result of a comprehensive survey made by Messrs. Price, Bacon, Guthrie & Colpitts; it includes the following six points: 
      1. Writing down of Plant Account to Minus $1,000,000,000. 
      2. Par value of common stock to be reduced to 1¢. 
      3. Payment of all wages and salaries in option warrants. 
      4. Inventories to be carried at $1. 
      5. Preferred Stock to be replaced by non-interest bearing bonds redeemable at 50% discount. 
      6. A $1,000,000,000 Contingency Reserve to be established. 
      The official statement of this extraordinary Modernization Plan follows in full: 
      The Board of Directors of U. S. Steel Corporation is pleased to announce that after intensive study of the problems arising from changed conditions in the industry, it has approved a comprehensive plan for remodeling the Corporation's accounting methods. A survey by a Special Committee, aided and abetted by Messrs. Price, Bacon, Guthrie & Colpitts, revealed that our company has lagged somewhat behind other American business enterprises in utilizing certain advanced bookkeeping methods, by means of which the earning power may be phenomenally enhanced without requiring any cash outlay or any changes in operating or sales conditions. It has been decided not only to adopt these newer methods, but to develop them to a still higher stage of perfection. The changes adopted by the Board may be summarized under six heads, as follows: 
1. Fixed Assets to be written down to Minus $1,000,000,000. 
      Many representative companies have relieved their income accounts of all charges for depreciation by writing down their plant account to $1. The Special Committee points out that if their plants are worth only $1, the fixed assets of U. S. Steel Corporation are worth a good deal less than that sum. It is now a well-recognized fact that many plants are in reality a liability rather than an asset, entailing not only depreciation charges, but taxes, maintenance, and other expenditures. Accordingly, the Board has decided to extend the write-down policy initiated in the 1935 report, and to mark down the Fixed Assets from $1,338,522,858.96 to a round Minus $1,000,000,000. 
      The advantages of this move should be evident. As the plant wears out, the liability becomes correspondingly reduced. Hence, instead of the present depreciation charge of some $47,000,000 yearly there will be an annual appreciation credit of 5%, or $50,000,000. This will increase earnings by no less than $97,000,000 per annum. 
2. Reduction of Par Value of Common Stock to 1¢, and 
3. Payment of Salaries and Wages in Option Warrants. 
      Many corporations have been able to reduce their overhead expenses substantially by paying a large part of their executive salaries in the form of options to buy stock, which carry no charge against earnings. The full possibilities of this modern device have apparently not been adequately realized. The Board of Directors has adopted the following advanced form of this idea: 
      The entire personnel of the Corporation are to receive their compensation in the form of rights to buy common stock at $50 per share, at the rate of one purchase right for each $50 of salary and/or wages in their present amounts. The par value of the common stock is to be reduced to 1¢. 
      The almost incredible advantages of this new plan are evident from the following: 
      A. The payroll of the Corporation will be entirely eliminated, a saving of $250,000,000 per annum, based on 1935 operations. 
      B. At the same time, the effective compensation of all our employees will be increased severalfold. Because of the large earnings per share to be shown on our common stock under the new methods, it is certain that the shares will command a price in the market far above the option level of $50 per share, making the readily realizable value of these option warrants greatly in excess of the present cash wages that they will replace. 
      C. The Corporation will realize an additional large annual profit through the exercise of these warrants. Since the par value of the common stock will be fixed at 1¢, there will be a gain of $49.99 on each share subscribed for. In the interest of conservative accounting, however, this profit will not be included in the income account, but will be shown separately as a credit to Capital Surplus. 
      D. The Corporation's cash position will be enormously strengthened. In place of the present annual cash outgo of $250,000,000 for wages (1935 basis), there will be annual cash inflow of $250,000,000 through exercise of the subscription warrants for 5,000,000 shares of common stock. The Company's large earnings and strong cash position will permit the payment of a liberal dividend which, in turn, will result in the exercise of these option warrants immediately after issuance which, in turn, will further improve the cash position which, in turn, will permit a higher dividend rate -- and so on, indefinitely. 
4. Inventories to be carried at $1. 
      Serious losses have been taken during the depression due to the necessity of adjusting inventory value to market. Various enterprises -- notably in the metal and cotton-textile fields -- have successfully dealt with this problem by carrying all or part of their inventories at extremely low unit prices. The U. S. Steel Corporation has decided to adopt a still more progressive policy, and to carry its entire inventory at $1. This will be effected by an appropriate write-down at the end of each year, the amount of said write-down to be charged to the Contingency Reserve hereinafter referred to. 
      The benefits to be derived from this new method are very great. Not only will it obviate all possibility of inventory depreciation, but it will substantially enhance the annual earnings of the Corporation. The inventory on hand at the beginning of the year, valued at $1, will be sold during the year at an excellent profit. It is estimated that our income will be increased by means of this method to the extent of at least $150,000,000 per annum which, by a coincidence, will about equal the amount of the write-down to be made each year against Contingency Reserve. 
      A minority report of the Special Committee recommends that Accounts Receivable and Cash also be written down to $1, in the interest of consistency and to gain additional advantages similar to those just discussed. This proposal has been rejected for the time being because our auditors still require that any recoveries of receivables and cash so charged off be credited to surplus instead of to the year's income. It is expected, however, that this auditing rule -- which is rather reminiscent of the horse-and-buggy days -- will soon be changed in line with modern tendencies. Should this occur, the minority report will be given further and favorable consideration. 
5. Replacement of Preferred Stock by Non-Interest-Bearing Bonds Redeemable at 50% Discount. 
      During the recent depression many companies have been able to offset their operating losses by including in income profits arising from repurchases of their own bonds at a substantial discount from par. Unfortunately the credit of U. S. Steel Corporation has always stood so high that this lucrative source of revenue has not hitherto been available to it. The Modernization Scheme will remedy this condition. 
      It is proposed that each share of preferred stock be exchanged for $300 face value of non-interest-bearing sinking-fund notes, redeemable by lot at 50% of face value in 10 equal annual installments. This will require the issuance of $1,080,000,000 of new notes, of which $108,000,000 will be retired each year at a cost to the Corporation of only $54,000,000, thus creating an annual profit of the same amount. 
      Like the wage-and/or-salary plan described under 3. above, this arrangement will benefit both the Corporation and its preferred stockholders. The latter are assured payment for their present shares at 150% of par value over an average period of five years. Since short-term securities yield practically no return at present, the non-interest-bearing feature is of no real importance. The Corporation will convert its present annual charge of $25,000,000 for preferred dividends into an annual bond-retirement profit of $54,000,000 -- an aggregate yearly gain of $79,000,000. 
6. Establishment of a Contingency Reserve of $1,000,000,000. 
      The Directors are confident that the improvements hereinbefore described will assure the Corporation of a satisfactory earning power under all conditions in the future. Under modern accounting methods, however, it is unnecessary to incur the slightest risk of loss through adverse business developments of any sort, since all these may be provided for in advance by means of a Contingency Reserve. 
      The Special Committee has recommended that the Corporation create such a Contingency Reserve in the fairly substantial amount of $1,000,000,000. As previously set forth, the annual write-down of inventory to $1 will be absorbed by this reserve. To prevent eventual exhaustion of the Contingency Reserve, it has been further decided that it be replenished each year by transfer of an appropriate sum from Capital Surplus. Since the latter is expected to increase each year by not less than $250,000,000 through the exercise of the Stock Option Warrants (see 3. above), it will readily make good any drains on the Contingency Reserve. 
      In setting up this arrangement, the Board of Directors must confess regretfully that they have been unable to improve upon the devices already employed by important corporations in transferring large sums between Capital, Capital Surplus, Contingency Reserves and other Balance Sheet Accounts. In fact, it must be admitted that our entries will be somewhat too simple, and will lack that element of extreme mystification that characterizes the most advanced procedure in this field. The Board of Directors, however, have insisted upon clarity and simplicity in framing their Modernization Plan, even at the sacrifice of possible advantage to the Corporation's earning power. 
      In order to show the combined effect of the new proposals upon the Corporation's earning power, we submit herewith a condensed Income Account for 1935 on two bases, viz: 


 

 

B. Pro-Forma
Giving Effect to
Changes Proposed
Herewith


 

 


 

A. As Reported


Gross Receipts from all Sources (Including Inter-Company) 

$765,000,000 

$765,000,000 


Salaries and Wages . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

251,000,000 

--


Other Operating Expenses and Taxes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

461,000,000 

311,000,000 


Depreciation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

47,000,000 

(50,000,000) 


Interest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5,000,000 

5,000,000 


Discount on Bonds Retired . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

--

(54,000,000) 


Preferred Dividends . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

25,000,000 

--


Balance for Common . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

(24,000,000)

553,000,000 


Average Shares Outstanding . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

8,703,252 

11,203,252 


Earned Per Share . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

($2.76)

$49.80 


      In accordance with a somewhat antiquated custom there is appended herewith a condensed pro-forma Balance Sheet of the U. S. Steel Corporation as of December 31, 1935, after giving effect to proposed changes in asset and liability accounts. 



ASSETS


Fixed Assets, net . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

($1,000,000,000)


Cash Assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

142,000,000 


Receivables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

56,000,000 


Inventory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1 


Miscellaneous Assets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

27,000,000 



Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 



($774,999,999)




LIABILITIES


Common Stock Par 1¢ (Par Value $87,032.52) Stated Value* 

($3,500,000,000)


Subsidiaries' Bonds and Stocks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

113,000,000 


New Sinking Fund Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

1,080,000,000 


Current Liabilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

69,000,000 


Contingency Reserve . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

1,000,000,000 


Other Reserves . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

74,000,000 


Initial Surplus . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 

389,000,001 



Total . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .



($774,999,999)


*Given a Stated Value differing from Par Value, in accordance with the laws of the State of Virginia, where the company will be re-incorporated. 
      It is perhaps unnecessary to point out to our stockholders that modern accounting methods give rise to balance sheets differing somewhat in appearance from those of a less advanced period. In view of the very large earning power that will result from these changes in the Corporation's Balance Sheet, it is not expected that undue attention will be paid to the details of assets and liabilities. 
      In conclusion, the Board desires to point out that the combined procedure, whereby plant will be carried at a minus figure, our wage bill will be eliminated, and inventory will stand on our books at virtually nothing, will give U. S. Steel Corporation an enormous competitive advantage in the industry. We shall be able to sell our products at exceedingly low prices and still show a handsome margin of profit. It is the considered view of the Board of Directors that under the Modernization Scheme we shall be able to undersell all competitors to such a point that the anti-trust laws will constitute the only barrier to 100% domination of the industry. 
      In making this statement, the Board is not unmindful of the possibility that some of our competitors may seek to offset our new advantages by adopting similar accounting improvements. We are confident, however, that U. S. Steel will be able to retain the loyalty of its customers, old and new, through the unique prestige that will accrue to it as the originator and pioneer in these new fields of service to the user of steel. Should necessity arise, moreover, we believe we shall be able to maintain our deserved superiority by introducing still more advanced bookkeeping methods, which are even now under development in our Experimental Accounting Laboratory. 




APPENDIX B 


Some Thoughts on Selling Your Business*




*This is an edited version of a letter I sent some years ago to a man who had indicated that he might want to sell his family business. I present it here because it is a message I would like to convey to other prospective sellers. -- W.E.B.



Dear _____________: 
      Here are a few thoughts pursuant to our conversation of the other day. 
      Most business owners spend the better part of their lifetimes building their businesses. By experience built upon endless repetition, they sharpen their skills in merchandising, purchasing, personnel selection, etc. It's a learning process, and mistakes made in one year often contribute to competence and success in succeeding years. 
      In contrast, owner-managers sell their business only once -- frequently in an emotionally-charged atmosphere with a multitude of pressures coming from different directions. Often, much of the pressure comes from brokers whose compensation is contingent upon consummation of a sale, regardless of its consequences for both buyer and seller. The fact that the decision is so important, both financially and personally, to the owner can make the process more, rather than less, prone to error. And, mistakes made in the once-in-a-lifetime sale of a business are not reversible. 
      Price is very important, but often is not the most critical aspect of the sale. You and your family have an extraordinary business -- one of a kind in your field -- and any buyer is going to recognize that. It's also a business that is going to get more valuable as the years go by. So if you decide not to sell now, you are very likely to realize more money later on. With that knowledge you can deal from strength and take the time required to select the buyer you want. 
      If you should decide to sell, I think Berkshire Hathaway offers some advantages that most other buyers do not. Practically all of these buyers will fall into one of two categories: 
      (1) A company located elsewhere but operating in your business or in a business somewhat akin to yours. Such a buyer -- no matter what promises are made -- will usually have managers who feel they know how to run your business operations and, sooner or later, will want to apply some hands-on "help." If the acquiring company is much larger, it often will have squads of managers, recruited over the years in part by promises that they will get to run future acquisitions. They will have their own way of doing things and, even though your business record undoubtedly will be far better than theirs, human nature will at some point cause them to believe that their methods of operating are superior. You and your family probably have friends who have sold their businesses to larger companies, and I suspect that their experiences will confirm the tendency of parent companies to take over the running of their subsidiaries, particularly when the parent knows the industry, or thinks it does. 
      (2) A financial maneuverer, invariably operating with large amounts of borrowed money, who plans to resell either to the public or to another corporation as soon as the time is favorable. Frequently, this buyer's major contribution will be to change accounting methods so that earnings can be presented in the most favorable light just prior to his bailing out. I'm enclosing a recent article that describes this sort of transaction, which is becoming much more frequent because of a rising stock market and the great supply of funds available for such transactions. 
      If the sole motive of the present owners is to cash their chips and put the business behind them -- and plenty of sellers fall in this category -- either type of buyer that I've just described is satisfactory. But if the sellers' business represents the creative work of a lifetime and forms an integral part of their personality and sense of being, buyers of either type have serious flaws. 
      Berkshire is another kind of buyer -- a rather unusual one. We buy to keep, but we don't have, and don't expect to have, operating people in our parent organization. All of the businesses we own are run autonomously to an extraordinary degree. In most cases, the managers of important businesses we have owned for many years have not been to Omaha or even met each other. When we buy a business, the sellers go on running it just as they did before the sale; we adapt to their methods rather than vice versa. 
      We have no one -- family, recently recruited MBAs, etc. -- to whom we have promised a chance to run businesses we have bought from owner-managers. And we won't have. 
      You know of some of our past purchases. I'm enclosing a list of everyone from whom we have ever bought a business, and I invite you to check with them as to our performance versus our promises. You should be particularly interested in checking with the few whose businesses did not do well in order to ascertain how we behaved under difficult conditions. 
      Any buyer will tell you that he needs you personally -- and if he has any brains, he most certainly does need you. But a great many buyers, for the reasons mentioned above, don't match their subsequent actions to their earlier words. We will behave exactly as promised, both because we have so promised, and because we need to in order to achieve the best business results. 
      This need explains why we would want the operating members of your family to retain a 20% interest in the business. We need 80% to consolidate earnings for tax purposes, which is a step important to us. It is equally important to us that the family members who run the business remain as owners. Very simply, we would not want to buy unless we felt key members of present management would stay on as our partners. Contracts cannot guarantee your continued interest; we would simply rely on your word. 
      The areas I get involved in are capital allocation and selection and compensation of the top man. Other personnel decisions, operating strategies, etc. are his bailiwick. Some Berkshire managers talk over some of their decisions with me; some don't. It depends upon their personalities and, to an extent, upon their own personal relationship with me. 
      If you should decide to do business with Berkshire, we would pay in cash. Your business would not be used as collateral for any loan by Berkshire. There would be no brokers involved. 
      Furthermore, there would be no chance that a deal would be announced and that the buyer would then back off or start suggesting adjustments (with apologies, of course, and with an explanation that banks, lawyers, boards of directors, etc. were to be blamed). And finally, you would know exactly with whom you are dealing. You would not have one executive negotiate the deal only to have someone else in charge a few years later, or have the president regretfully tell you that his board of directors required this change or that (or possibly required sale of your business to finance some new interest of the parent's). 
      It's only fair to tell you that you would be no richer after the sale than now. The ownership of your business already makes you wealthy and soundly invested. A sale would change the form of your wealth, but it wouldn't change its amount. If you sell, you will have exchanged a 100%-owned valuable asset that you understand for another valuable asset -- cash -- that will probably be invested in small pieces (stocks) of other businesses that you understand less well. There is often a sound reason to sell but, if the transaction is a fair one, the reason is not so that the seller can become wealthier. 
      I will not pester you; if you have any possible interest in selling, I would appreciate your call. I would be extraordinarily proud to have Berkshire, along with the key members of your family, own _______; I believe we would do very well financially; and I believe you would have just as much fun running the business over the next 20 years as you have had during the past 20. 


  

Sincerely,


  

/s/ Warren E. Buffett








Chairman's Letter - 1991



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.



To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:

     Our gain in net worth during 1991 was $2.1 billion, or 
39.6%. Over the last 27 years (that is, since present management 
took over) our per-share book value has grown from $19 to $6,437, 
or at a rate of 23.7% compounded annually.

     The size of our equity capital - which now totals $7.4 
billion - makes it certain that we cannot maintain our past rate 
of gain or, for that matter, come close to doing so. As Berkshire 
grows, the universe of opportunities that can significantly 
influence the company's performance constantly shrinks. When we 
were working with capital of $20 million, an idea or business 
producing $1 million of profit added five percentage points to 
our return for the year. Now we need a $370 million idea (i.e., 
one contributing over $550 million of pre-tax profit) to achieve 
the same result. And there are many more ways to make $1 million 
than to make $370 million.

     Charlie Munger, Berkshire's Vice Chairman, and I have set a 
goal of attaining a 15% average annual increase in Berkshire's 
intrinsic value. If our growth in book value is to keep up with a 
15% pace, we must earn $22 billion during the next decade. Wish 
us luck - we'll need it.

     Our outsized gain in book value in 1991 resulted from a 
phenomenon not apt to be repeated:  a dramatic rise in the price-
earnings ratios of Coca-Cola and Gillette. These two stocks 
accounted for nearly $1.6 billion of our $2.1 billion growth in 
net worth last year. When we loaded up on Coke three years ago, 
Berkshire's net worth was $3.4 billion; now our Coke stock alone 
is worth more than that.

     Coca-Cola and Gillette are two of the best companies in the 
world and we expect their earnings to grow at hefty rates in the 
years ahead. Over time, also, the value of our holdings in these 
stocks should grow in rough proportion. Last year, however, the 
valuations of these two companies rose far faster than their 
earnings. In effect, we got a double-dip benefit, delivered 
partly by the excellent earnings growth and even more so by the 
market's reappraisal of these stocks. We believe this reappraisal 
was warranted. But it can't recur annually:  We'll have to settle 
for a single dip in the future.

A Second Job

     In 1989 when I - a happy consumer of five cans of Cherry 
Coke daily - announced our purchase of $1 billion worth of Coca-
Cola stock, I described the move as a rather extreme example of 
putting our money where my mouth was. On August 18 of last year, 
when I was elected Interim Chairman of Salomon Inc, it was a 
different story: I put my mouth where our money was.

     You've all read of the events that led to my appointment. My 
decision to take the job carried with it an implicit but 
important message: Berkshire's operating managers are so 
outstanding that I knew I could materially reduce the time I was 
spending at the company and yet remain confident that its 
economic progress would not skip a beat. The Blumkins, the 
Friedman family, Mike Goldberg, the Heldmans, Chuck Huggins, Stan 
Lipsey, Ralph Schey and Frank Rooney (CEO of H.H. Brown, our 
latest acquisition, which I will describe later) are all masters 
of their operations and need no help from me. My job is merely to 
treat them right and to allocate the capital they generate. 
Neither function is impeded by my work at Salomon.

     The role that Charlie and I play in the success of our 
operating units can be illustrated by a story about  George Mira, 
the one-time quarterback of the University of Miami, and his 
coach, Andy Gustafson. Playing Florida and near its goal line, 
Mira dropped back to pass. He spotted an open receiver but found 
his right shoulder in the unshakable grasp of a Florida 
linebacker. The right-handed Mira thereupon switched the ball to 
his other hand and threw the only left-handed pass of his life - 
for a touchdown. As the crowd erupted, Gustafson calmly turned to 
a reporter and declared: "Now that's what I call coaching."

     Given the managerial stars we have at our operating units, 
Berkshire's performance is not affected if Charlie or I slip away 
from time to time. You should note, however, the "interim" in my 
Salomon title. Berkshire is my first love and one that will never 
fade: At the Harvard Business School last year, a student asked 
me when I planned to retire and I replied, "About five to ten 
years after I die."

Sources of Reported Earnings

     The table below shows the major sources of Berkshire's 
reported earnings. In this presentation, amortization of Goodwill 
and other major purchase-price accounting adjustments are not 
charged against the specific businesses to which they apply, but 
are instead aggregated and shown separately. This procedure lets 
you view the earnings of our businesses as they would have been 
reported had we not purchased them. I've explained in past 
reports why this form of presentation seems to us to be more 
useful to investors and managers than one utilizing generally 
accepted accounting principles (GAAP), which require purchase-
price adjustments to be made on a business-by-business basis. The 
total net earnings we show in the table are, of course, identical 
to the GAAP total in our audited financial statements.

     A large amount of additional information about these 
businesses is given on pages 33-47, where you also will find 
our segment earnings reported on a GAAP basis. However, we will 
not in this letter discuss each of our non-insurance operations, 
as we have in the past. Our businesses have grown in number - and 
will continue to grow - so it now makes sense to rotate coverage, 
discussing one or two in detail each year.
				          
                                              (000s omitted)
                              ----------------------------------------------
                                                         Berkshire's Share  
                                                          of Net Earnings  
                                                         (after taxes and  
                                 Pre-Tax Earnings       minority interests)
                              ----------------------  ---------------------- 
                                 1991        1990        1991        1990
                              ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Operating Earnings:
  Insurance Group:
    Underwriting ............ $(119,593)  $ (26,647)  $ (77,229)  $ (14,936)
    Net Investment Income ...   331,846     327,047     285,173     282,613 
  H. H. Brown (acquired 7/1/91)  13,616       ---         8,611       ---    
  Buffalo News ..............    37,113      43,954      21,841      25,981 
  Fechheimer ................    12,947      12,450       6,843       6,605 
  Kirby .....................    35,726      27,445      22,555      17,613 
  Nebraska Furniture Mart ...    14,384      17,248       6,993       8,485 
  Scott Fetzer 
     Manufacturing Group ....    26,123      30,378      15,901      18,458 
  See's Candies .............    42,390      39,580      25,575      23,892 
  Wesco - other than Insurance   12,230      12,441       8,777       9,676 
  World Book ................    22,483      31,896      15,487      20,420 
  Amortization of Goodwill ..    (4,113)     (3,476)     (4,098)     (3,461)
  Other Purchase-Price 
     Accounting Charges .....    (6,021)     (5,951)     (7,019)     (6,856)
  Interest Expense* .........   (89,250)    (76,374)    (57,165)    (49,726)
  Shareholder-Designated 
     Contributions ..........    (6,772)     (5,824)     (4,388)     (3,801)
  Other .....................    77,399      58,310      47,896      35,782 
                              ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Operating Earnings              400,508     482,477     315,753     370,745 
Sales of Securities             192,478      33,989     124,155      23,348 
Total Earnings - All Entities $ 592,986   $ 516,466   $ 439,908   $ 394,093 

*Excludes interest expense of Scott Fetzer Financial Group and 
 Mutual Savings & Loan.


"Look-Through" Earnings

     We've previously discussed look-through earnings, which 
consist of: (1) the operating earnings reported in the previous 
section, plus; (2) the retained operating earnings of major 
investees that, under GAAP accounting, are not reflected in our 
profits, less; (3) an allowance for the tax that would be paid by 
Berkshire if these retained earnings of investees had instead been 
distributed to us.

     I've told you that over time look-through earnings must 
increase at about 15% annually if our intrinsic business value is 
to grow at that rate. Indeed, since present management took over in 
1965, our look-through earnings have grown at almost the identical 
23% rate of gain recorded for book value.

     Last year, however, our look-through earnings did not grow at 
all but rather declined by 14%. To an extent, the decline was 
precipitated by two forces that I discussed in last year's report 
and that I warned you would have a negative effect on look-through 
earnings.

     First, I told you that our media earnings - both direct and 
look-through - were "sure to decline" and they in fact did. The 
second force came into play on April 1, when the call of our 
Gillette preferred stock required us to convert it into common. The 
after-tax earnings in 1990 from our preferred had been about $45 
million, an amount somewhat higher than the combination in 1991 of 
three months of dividends on our preferred plus nine months of 
look-through earnings on the common.

     Two other outcomes that I did not foresee also hurt look-
through earnings in 1991. First, we had a break-even result from 
our interest in Wells Fargo (dividends we received from the company 
were offset by negative retained earnings). Last year I said that 
such a result at Wells was "a low-level possibility - not a 
likelihood." Second, we recorded significantly lower - though still 
excellent - insurance profits.

     The following table shows you how we calculate look-through 
earnings, although I warn you that the figures are necessarily very 
rough. (The dividends paid to us by these investees have been 
included in the operating earnings itemized on page 6, mostly 
under "Insurance Group: Net Investment Income.")

                                                          Berkshire's Share 
                                                           of Undistributed
                                Berkshire's Approximate   Operating Earnings 
Berkshire's Major Investees      Ownership at Yearend       (in millions)
---------------------------     -----------------------   ------------------  

                                    1991       1990         1991      1990
                                   ------     ------      --------  --------
Capital Cities/ABC Inc. ........    18.1%      17.9%       $ 61      $ 85
The Coca-Cola Company ..........     7.0%       7.0%         69        58
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.     3.4%(1)    3.2%(1)      15        10
The Gillette Company ...........    11.0%       ---          23(2)    --- 
GEICO Corp. ....................    48.2%      46.1%         69        76
The Washington Post Company ....    14.6%      14.6%         10        18
Wells Fargo & Company ..........     9.6%       9.7%        (17)       19(3)
                                                          --------  --------
Berkshire's share of 
   undistributed earnings of major investees               $230      $266
Hypothetical tax on these undistributed investee earnings   (30)      (35)
Reported operating earnings of Berkshire                    316       371 
                                                          --------  --------
      Total look-through earnings of Berkshire             $516      $602 
                                                          ========  ========

     (1) Net of minority interest at Wesco
     (2) For the nine months after Berkshire converted its 
         preferred on April 1
     (3) Calculated on average ownership for the year

                    * * * * * * * * * * * *

     We also believe that investors can benefit by focusing on 
their own look-through earnings. To calculate these, they should 
determine the underlying earnings attributable to the shares they 
hold in their portfolio and total these. The goal of each investor 
should be to create a portfolio (in effect, a "company") that will 
deliver him or her the highest possible look-through earnings a 
decade or so from now.  

     An approach of this kind will force the investor to think 
about long-term business prospects rather than short-term stock 
market prospects, a perspective likely to improve results. It's 
true, of course, that, in the long run, the scoreboard for 
investment decisions is market price. But prices will be determined 
by future earnings. In investing, just as in baseball, to put runs 
on the scoreboard one must watch the playing field, not the 
scoreboard.

A Change in Media Economics and Some Valuation Math

     In last year's report, I stated my opinion that the decline in 
the profitability of media companies reflected secular as well as 
cyclical factors. The events of 1991 have fortified that case: The 
economic strength of once-mighty media enterprises continues to 
erode as retailing patterns change and advertising and 
entertainment choices proliferate. In the business world, 
unfortunately, the rear-view mirror is always clearer than the 
windshield: A few years back no one linked to the media business - 
neither lenders, owners nor financial analysts - saw the economic 
deterioration that was in store for the industry. (But give me a 
few years and I'll probably convince myself that I did.)

     The fact is that newspaper, television, and magazine 
properties have begun to resemble businesses more than franchises 
in their economic behavior. Let's take a quick look at the 
characteristics separating these two classes of enterprise, keeping 
in mind, however, that many operations fall in some middle ground 
and can best be described as weak franchises or strong businesses.

     An economic franchise arises from a product or service that: 
(1) is needed or desired; (2) is thought by its customers to have 
no close substitute and; (3) is not subject to price regulation. 
The existence of all three conditions will be demonstrated by a 
company's ability to regularly price its product or service 
aggressively and thereby to earn high rates of return on capital. 
Moreover, franchises can tolerate mis-management. Inept managers 
may diminish a franchise's profitability, but they cannot inflict 
mortal damage.

     In contrast, "a business" earns exceptional profits only if it 
is the low-cost operator or if supply of its product or service is 
tight. Tightness in supply usually does not last long. With 
superior management, a company may maintain its status as a low-
cost operator for a much longer time, but even then unceasingly 
faces the possibility of competitive attack. And a business, unlike 
a franchise, can be killed by poor management.

     Until recently, media properties possessed the three 
characteristics of a franchise and consequently could both price 
aggressively and be managed loosely. Now, however, consumers 
looking for information and entertainment (their primary interest 
being the latter) enjoy greatly broadened choices as to where to 
find them. Unfortunately, demand can't expand in response to this 
new supply: 500 million American eyeballs and a 24-hour day are all 
that's available. The result is that competition has intensified, 
markets have fragmented, and the media industry has lost some - 
though far from all - of its franchise strength.

                    * * * * * * * * * * * *

     The industry's weakened franchise has an impact on its value 
that goes far beyond the immediate effect on earnings. For an 
understanding of this phenomenon, let's look at some much over-
simplified, but relevant, math.

     A few years ago the conventional wisdom held that a newspaper, 
television or magazine property would forever increase its earnings 
at 6% or so annually and would do so without the employment of 
additional capital, for the reason that depreciation charges would 
roughly match capital expenditures and working capital requirements 
would be minor. Therefore, reported earnings (before amortization 
of intangibles) were also freely-distributable earnings, which 
meant that ownership of a media property could be construed as akin 
to owning a perpetual annuity set to grow at 6% a year. Say, next, 
that a discount rate of 10% was used to determine the present value 
of that earnings stream. One could then calculate that it was 
appropriate to pay a whopping $25 million for a property with 
current after-tax earnings of $1 million. (This after-tax multiplier 
of 25 translates to a multiplier on pre-tax earnings of about 16.)

     Now change the assumption and posit that the $1 million 
represents "normal earning power" and that earnings will bob around 
this figure cyclically. A "bob-around" pattern is indeed the lot of 
most businesses, whose income stream grows only if their owners are 
willing to commit more capital (usually in the form of retained 
earnings). Under our revised assumption, $1 million of earnings, 
discounted by the same 10%, translates to a $10 million valuation. 
Thus a seemingly modest shift in assumptions reduces the property's 
valuation to 10 times after-tax earnings (or about 6 1/2 times 
pre-tax earnings).

     Dollars are dollars whether they are derived from the 
operation of media properties or of steel mills. What in the past 
caused buyers to value a dollar of earnings from media far higher 
than a dollar from steel was that the earnings of a media property 
were expected to constantly grow (without the business requiring 
much additional capital), whereas steel earnings clearly fell in 
the bob-around category. Now, however, expectations for media have 
moved toward the bob-around model. And, as our simplified example 
illustrates, valuations must change dramatically when expectations 
are revised.

     We have a significant investment in media - both through our 
direct ownership of Buffalo News and our shareholdings in The 
Washington Post Company and Capital Cities/ABC - and the intrinsic 
value of this investment has declined materially because of the 
secular transformation that the industry is experiencing. (Cyclical 
factors have also hurt our current look-through earnings, but these 
factors do not reduce intrinsic value.) However, as our Business 
Principles on page 2-3 note, one of the rules by which we run 
Berkshire is that we do not sell businesses - or investee holdings 
that we have classified as permanent - simply because we see ways 
to use the money more advantageously elsewhere. (We did sell 
certain other media holdings sometime back, but these were 
relatively small.)

     The intrinsic value losses that we have suffered have been 
moderated because the Buffalo News, under Stan Lipsey's leadership, 
has done far better than most newspapers and because both Cap 
Cities and Washington Post are exceptionally well-managed. In 
particular, these companies stayed on the sidelines during the late 
1980's period in which purchasers of media properties regularly 
paid irrational prices. Also, the debt of both Cap Cities and 
Washington Post is small and roughly offset by cash that they hold. 
As a result, the shrinkage in the value of their assets has not 
been accentuated by the effects of leverage. Among publicly-owned 
media companies, our two investees are about the only ones 
essentially free of debt. Most of the other companies, through a 
combination of the aggressive acquisition policies they pursued and 
shrinking earnings, find themselves with debt equal to five or more 
times their current net income.

     The strong balance sheets and strong managements of Cap Cities 
and Washington Post leave us more comfortable with these 
investments than we would be with holdings in any other media 
companies. Moreover, most media properties continue to have far 
better economic characteristics than those possessed by the average 
American business. But gone are the days of bullet-proof franchises 
and cornucopian economics.

Twenty Years in a Candy Store

     We've just passed a milestone: Twenty years ago, on January 3, 
1972, Blue Chip Stamps (then an affiliate of Berkshire and later 
merged into it) bought control of See's Candy Shops, a West Coast 
manufacturer and retailer of boxed-chocolates. The nominal price 
that the sellers were asking - calculated on the 100% ownership we 
ultimately attained - was $40 million. But the company had $10 
million of excess cash, and therefore the true offering price was 
$30 million. Charlie and I, not yet fully appreciative of the value 
of an economic franchise, looked at the company's mere $7 million 
of tangible net worth and said $25 million was as high as we would 
go (and we meant it). Fortunately, the sellers accepted our offer.

     The sales of trading stamps by Blue Chip thereafter declined 
from $102.5 million in 1972 to $1.2 million in 1991. But See's 
candy sales in the same period increased from $29 million to $196 
million. Moreover, profits at See's grew even faster than sales, 
from $4.2 million pre-tax in 1972 to $42.4 million last year.

     For an increase in profits to be evaluated properly, it must 
be compared with the incremental capital investment required to 
produce it. On this score, See's has been astounding: The company 
now operates comfortably with only $25 million of net worth, which 
means that our beginning base of $7 million has had to be 
supplemented by only $18 million of reinvested earnings. Meanwhile, 
See's remaining pre-tax profits of $410 million were distributed to 
Blue Chip/Berkshire during the 20 years for these companies to 
deploy (after payment of taxes) in whatever way made most sense.

     In our See's purchase, Charlie and I had one important 
insight: We saw that the business had untapped pricing power. 
Otherwise, we were lucky twice over. First, the transaction was not 
derailed by our dumb insistence on a $25 million price. Second, we 
found Chuck Huggins, then See's executive vice-president, whom we 
instantly put in charge. Both our business and personal experiences 
with Chuck have been outstanding. One example: When the purchase 
was made, we shook hands with Chuck on a compensation arrangement - 
conceived in about five minutes and never reduced to a written 
contract - that remains unchanged to this day.

     In 1991, See's sales volume, measured in dollars, matched that 
of 1990. In pounds, however, volume was down 4%. All of that 
slippage took place in the last two months of the year, a period 
that normally produces more than 80% of annual profits. Despite the 
weakness in sales, profits last year grew 7%, and our pre-tax 
profit margin was a record 21.6%.

     Almost 80% of See's sales come from California and our 
business clearly was hurt by the recession, which hit the state 
with particular force late in the year. Another negative, however, 
was the mid-year initiation in California of a sales tax of 7%-8«% 
(depending on the county involved) on "snack food" that was deemed 
applicable to our candy.

     Shareholders who are students of epistemological shadings will 
enjoy California's classifications of "snack" and "non-snack" 
foods:

     Taxable "Snack" Foods         Non-Taxable "Non-Snack" Foods
     ---------------------         -----------------------------
     Ritz Crackers                 Soda Crackers
     Popped Popcorn                Unpopped Popcorn
     Granola Bars                  Granola Cereal
     Slice of Pie (Wrapped)        Whole Pie
     Milky Way Candy Bar           Milky Way Ice Cream Bar

     What - you are sure to ask - is the tax status of a melted 
Milky Way ice cream bar? In that androgynous form, does it more 
resemble an ice cream bar or a candy bar that has been left in the 
sun?  It's no wonder that Brad Sherman, Chairman of California's 
State Board of Equalization, who opposed the snack food bill but 
must now administer it, has said: "I came to this job as a 
specialist in tax law. Now I find my constituents should have 
elected Julia Child."

     Charlie and I have many reasons to be thankful for our 
association with Chuck and See's. The obvious ones are that we've 
earned exceptional returns and had a good time in the process. 
Equally important, ownership of See's has taught us much about the 
evaluation of franchises. We've made significant money in certain 
common stocks because of the lessons we learned at See's.

H. H. Brown

     We made a sizable acquisition in 1991 - the H. H. Brown 
Company - and behind this business is an interesting history. In 
1927 a 29-year-old businessman named Ray Heffernan purchased the 
company, then located in North Brookfield, Massachusetts, for 
$10,000 and began a 62-year career of running it. (He also found 
time for other pursuits: At age 90 he was still joining new golf 
clubs.) By Mr. Heffernan's retirement in early 1990 H. H. Brown had 
three plants in the United States and one in Canada; employed close 
to 2,000 people; and earned about $25 million annually before 
taxes.

     Along the way, Frances Heffernan, one of Ray's daughters, 
married Frank Rooney, who was sternly advised by Mr. Heffernan 
before the wedding that he had better forget any ideas he might 
have about working for his father-in-law. That was one of Mr. 
Heffernan's few mistakes: Frank went on to become CEO of Melville 
Shoe (now Melville Corp.). During his 23 years as boss, from 1964 
through 1986, Melville's earnings averaged more than 20% on equity 
and its stock (adjusted for splits) rose from $16 to $960. And a 
few years after Frank retired, Mr. Heffernan, who had fallen ill, 
asked him to run Brown.

     After Mr. Heffernan died late in 1990, his family decided to 
sell the company - and here we got lucky. I had known Frank for a 
few years but not well enough for him to think of Berkshire as a 
possible buyer. He instead gave the assignment of selling Brown to 
a major investment banker, which failed also to think of us. But 
last spring Frank was playing golf in Florida with John Loomis, a 
long-time friend of mine as well as a Berkshire shareholder, who is 
always on the alert for something that might fit us. Hearing about 
the impending sale of Brown, John told Frank that the company 
should be right up Berkshire's alley, and Frank promptly gave me a 
call. I thought right away that we would make a deal and before 
long it was done.

     Much of my enthusiasm for this purchase came from Frank's 
willingness to continue as CEO. Like most of our managers, he has 
no financial need to work but does so because he loves the game and 
likes to excel. Managers of this stripe cannot be "hired" in the 
normal sense of the word. What we must do is provide a concert hall 
in which business artists of this class will wish to perform.

     Brown (which, by the way, has no connection to Brown Shoe of 
St. Louis) is the leading North American manufacturer of work shoes 
and boots, and it has a history of earning unusually fine margins 
on sales and assets. Shoes are a tough business - of the billion 
pairs purchased in the United States each year, about 85% are 
imported  - and most manufacturers in the industry do poorly. The 
wide range of styles and sizes that producers offer causes 
inventories to be heavy; substantial capital is also tied up in 
receivables. In this kind of environment, only outstanding managers 
like Frank and the group developed by Mr. Heffernan can prosper.

     A distinguishing characteristic of H. H. Brown is one of the 
most unusual compensation systems I've encountered - but one that 
warms my heart: A number of key managers are paid an annual salary 
of $7,800, to which is added a designated percentage of the profits 
of the company after these are reduced by a charge for capital 
employed. These managers therefore truly stand in the shoes of 
owners. In contrast, most managers talk the talk but don't walk the 
walk, choosing instead to employ compensation systems that are long 
on carrots but short on sticks (and that almost invariably treat 
equity capital as if it were cost-free).  The arrangement at Brown, 
in any case, has served both the company and its managers 
exceptionally well, which should be no surprise:  Managers eager to 
bet heavily on their abilities usually have plenty of ability to 
bet on.

                    * * * * * * * * * * * *

     It's discouraging to note that though we have on four 
occasions made major purchases of companies whose sellers were 
represented by prominent investment banks, we were in only one of 
these instances contacted by the investment bank. In the other 
three cases, I myself or a friend initiated the transaction at some 
point after the investment bank had solicited its own list of 
prospects. We would love to see an intermediary earn its fee by 
thinking of us - and therefore repeat here what we're looking for:

     (1) Large purchases (at least $10 million of after-tax 
         earnings),
     (2) Demonstrated consistent earning power (future projections 
         are of little interest to us, nor are "turnaround" 
         situations),
     (3) Businesses earning good returns on equity while employing 
         little or no debt,
     (4) Management in place (we can't supply it),
     (5) Simple businesses (if there's lots of technology, we 
         won't understand it),
     (6) An offering price (we don't want to waste our time or 
         that of the seller by talking, even preliminarily, 
         about a transaction when price is unknown).

     We will not engage in unfriendly takeovers. We can promise 
complete confidentiality and a very fast answer - customarily 
within five minutes - as to whether we're interested. (With Brown, 
we didn't even need to take five.) We prefer to buy for cash, but 
will consider issuing stock when we receive as much in intrinsic 
business value as we give.

     Our favorite form of purchase is one fitting the pattern 
through which we acquired Nebraska Furniture Mart, Fechheimer's and 
Borsheim's. In cases like these, the company's owner-managers wish 
to generate significant amounts of cash, sometimes for themselves, 
but often for their families or inactive shareholders.  At the same 
time, these managers wish to remain significant owners who continue 
to run their companies just as they have in the past. We think we 
offer a particularly good fit for owners with such objectives and 
we invite potential sellers to check us out by contacting people 
with whom we have done business in the past.

     Charlie and I frequently get approached about acquisitions 
that don't come close to meeting our tests:  We've found that if 
you advertise an interest in buying collies, a lot of people will 
call hoping to sell you their cocker spaniels. A line from a 
country song expresses our feeling about new ventures, turnarounds, 
or auction-like sales: "When the phone don't ring, you'll know it's 
me."

     Besides being interested in the purchase of businesses as 
described above, we are also interested in the negotiated purchase 
of large, but not controlling, blocks of stock comparable to those 
we hold in Capital Cities, Salomon, Gillette, USAir, Champion, and 
American Express. We are not interested, however, in receiving 
suggestions about purchases we might make in the general stock 
market.

Insurance Operations

     Shown below is an updated version of our usual table 
presenting key figures for the property-casualty insurance 
industry:

          Yearly Change    Combined Ratio    Yearly Change   Inflation Rate 
           in Premiums   After Policyholder   in Incurred     Measured by  
           Written (%)       Dividends         Losses (%)   GDP Deflator (%)
          -------------  ------------------  -------------  ----------------
1981 .....      3.8            106.0              6.5             10.0
1982 .....      3.7            109.6              8.4              6.2
1983 .....      5.0            112.0              6.8              4.0
1984 .....      8.5            118.0             16.9              4.5
1985 .....     22.1            116.3             16.1              3.7
1986 .....     22.2            108.0             13.5              2.7
1987 .....      9.4            104.6              7.8              3.1
1988 .....      4.4            105.4              5.5              3.9
1989 .....      3.2            109.2              7.7              4.4
1990 (Revised)  4.4            109.6              4.8              4.1		
1991 (Est.)     3.1            109.1              2.9              3.7

     The combined ratio represents total insurance costs (losses 
incurred plus expenses) compared to revenue from premiums: A 
ratio below 100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 
100 indicates a loss. The higher the ratio, the worse the year. 
When the investment income that an insurer earns from holding 
policyholders' funds ("the float") is taken into account, a 
combined ratio in the 107 - 111 range typically produces an 
overall break-even result, exclusive of earnings on the funds 
provided by shareholders.

     For the reasons laid out in previous reports, we expect the 
industry's incurred losses to grow at close to 10% annually, even 
in periods when general inflation runs considerably lower. (Over 
the last 25 years, incurred losses have in reality grown at a 
still faster rate, 11%.) If premium growth meanwhile materially 
lags that 10% rate, underwriting losses will mount.

     However, the industry's tendency to under-reserve when 
business turns bad may obscure the picture for a time - and that 
could well describe the situation last year. Though premiums did 
not come close to growing 10%, the combined ratio failed to 
deteriorate as I had expected but instead slightly improved.  
Loss-reserve data for the industry indicate that there is reason 
to be skeptical of that outcome, and it may turn out that 1991's 
ratio should have been worse than was reported. In the long run, 
of course, trouble awaits managements that paper over operating 
problems with accounting maneuvers. Eventually, managements of 
this kind achieve the same result as the seriously-ill patient 
who tells his doctor: "I can't afford the operation, but would 
you accept a small payment to touch up the x-rays?"

     Berkshire's insurance business has changed in ways that make 
combined ratios, our own or the  industry's, largely irrelevant 
to our performance. What counts with us is the "cost of funds 
developed from insurance," or in the vernacular, "the cost of 
float."

     Float - which we generate in exceptional amounts - is the 
total of loss reserves, loss adjustment expense reserves and 
unearned premium reserves minus agents balances, prepaid 
acquisition costs and deferred charges applicable to assumed 
reinsurance. And the cost of float is measured by our 
underwriting loss.

     The table below shows our cost of float since we entered the 
business in 1967.

                 (1)             (2)                          Yearend Yield
             Underwriting                     Approximate      on Long-Term
                 Loss       Average Float    Cost of Funds     Govt. Bonds
             ------------   -------------   ---------------   -------------
                   (In $ Millions)         (Ratio of 1 to 2)

1967 ........   profit          $17.3        less than zero        5.50%
1968 ........   profit           19.9        less than zero        5.90%
1969 ........   profit           23.4        less than zero        6.79%
1970 ........    $0.37           32.4                 1.14%        6.25%
1971 ........   profit           52.5        less than zero        5.81%
1972 ........   profit           69.5        less than zero        5.82%
1973 ........   profit           73.3        less than zero        7.27%
1974 ........     7.36           79.1                 9.30%        8.13%
1975 ........    11.35           87.6                12.96%        8.03%
1976 ........   profit          102.6        less than zero        7.30%
1977 ........   profit          139.0        less than zero        7.97%
1978 ........   profit          190.4        less than zero        8.93%
1979 ........   profit          227.3        less than zero       10.08%
1980 ........   profit          237.0        less than zero       11.94%
1981 ........   profit          228.4        less than zero       13.61%
1982 ........    21.56          220.6                 9.77%       10.64%
1983 ........    33.87          231.3                14.64%       11.84%
1984 ........    48.06          253.2                18.98%       11.58%
1985 ........    44.23          390.2                11.34%        9.34%
1986 ........    55.84          797.5                 7.00%        7.60%
1987 ........    55.43        1,266.7                 4.38%        8.95%
1988 ........    11.08        1,497.7                 0.74%        9.00%
1989 ........    24.40        1,541.3                 1.58%        7.97%
1990 ........    26.65        1,637.3                 1.63%        8.24%
1991 ........    119.6        1,895.0                 6.31%        7.40%

     As you can see, our cost of funds in 1991 was well below the 
U. S. Government's cost on newly-issued long-term bonds. We have in 
fact beat the government's rate in 20 of the 25 years we have been 
in the insurance business, often by a wide margin. We have over 
that time also substantially increased the amount of funds we hold, 
which counts as a favorable development but only because the cost 
of funds has been satisfactory. Our float should continue to grow; 
the challenge will be to garner these funds at a reasonable cost.

     Berkshire continues to be a very large writer - perhaps the 
largest in the world - of "super-cat" insurance, which is coverage 
that other insurance companies buy to protect themselves against 
major catastrophic losses.  Profits in this business are enormously 
volatile. As I mentioned last year, $100 million in super-cat 
premiums, which is roughly our annual expectation, could deliver us 
anything from a $100 million profit (in a year with no big 
catastrophe) to a $200 million loss (in a year in which a couple of 
major hurricanes and/or earthquakes come along).

     We price this business expecting to pay out, over the long 
term, about 90% of the premiums we receive.  In any given year, 
however, we are likely to appear either enormously profitable or 
enormously unprofitable.  That is true in part because GAAP 
accounting does not allow us to set up reserves in the catastrophe-
free years for losses that are certain to be experienced in other 
years. In effect, a one-year accounting cycle is ill-suited to the 
nature of this business - and that is a reality you should be aware 
of when you assess our annual results.

     Last year there appears to have been, by our definition, one 
super-cat, but it will trigger payments from only about 25% of our 
policies. Therefore, we currently estimate the 1991 underwriting 
profit from our catastrophe business to have been about $11 
million. (You may be surprised to learn the identity of the biggest 
catastrophe in 1991:  It was neither the Oakland fire nor Hurricane 
Bob, but rather a September typhoon in Japan that caused the 
industry an insured loss now estimated at about $4-$5 billion. At 
the higher figure, the loss from the typhoon would surpass that 
from Hurricane Hugo, the previous record-holder.)

     Insurers will always need huge amounts of reinsurance 
protection for marine and aviation disasters as well as for natural 
catastrophes. In the 1980's much of this reinsurance was supplied 
by "innocents" - that is, by insurers that did not understand the 
risks of the business - but they have now been financially burned 
beyond recognition. (Berkshire itself was an innocent all too often 
when I was personally running the insurance operation.)  Insurers, 
though, like investors, eventually repeat their mistakes. At some 
point - probably after a few catastrophe-scarce years - innocents 
will reappear and prices for super-cat policies will plunge to 
silly levels.

     As long as apparently-adequate rates prevail, however, we will 
be a major participant in super-cat coverages.  In marketing this 
product, we enjoy a significant competitive advantage because of 
our premier financial strength.  Thinking insurers know that when 
"the big one" comes, many reinsurers who found it easy to write 
policies will find it difficult to write checks. (Some reinsurers 
can say what Jackie Mason does: "I'm fixed for life - as long as I 
don't buy anything.") Berkshire's ability to fulfill all its 
commitments under conditions of even extreme adversity is 
unquestioned.

     Overall, insurance offers Berkshire its greatest 
opportunities. Mike Goldberg has accomplished wonders with this 
operation since he took charge and it has become a very valuable 
asset, albeit one that can't be appraised with any precision.

Marketable Common Stocks

     On the next page we list our common stock holdings having a 
value of over $100 million. A small portion of these investments 
belongs to subsidiaries of which Berkshire owns less than 100%.

                                                         12/31/91
   Shares   Company                                  Cost       Market
   ------   -------                               ----------  ----------
                                                      (000s omitted)
 3,000,000  Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. ............ $  517,500  $1,300,500
46,700,000  The Coca-Cola Company. ..............  1,023,920   3,747,675
 2,495,200  Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. ....     77,245     343,090	
 6,850,000  GEICO Corp. .........................     45,713   1,363,150
24,000,000  The Gillette Company ................    600,000   1,347,000
31,247,000  Guinness PLC ........................    264,782     296,755
 1,727,765  The Washington Post Company .........      9,731     336,050
 5,000,000  Wells Fargo & Company                    289,431     290,000

     As usual the list reflects our Rip Van Winkle approach to 
investing. Guinness is a new position. But we held the other seven 
stocks a year ago (making allowance for the conversion of our 
Gillette position from preferred to common) and in six of those we 
hold an unchanged number of shares. The exception is Federal Home 
Loan Mortgage ("Freddie Mac"), in which our shareholdings increased 
slightly. Our stay-put behavior reflects our view that the stock 
market serves as a relocation center at which money is moved from 
the active to the patient. (With tongue only partly in check, I 
suggest that recent events indicate that the much-maligned "idle 
rich" have received a bad rap: They have maintained or increased 
their wealth while many of the "energetic rich" - aggressive real 
estate operators, corporate acquirers, oil drillers, etc. - have 
seen their fortunes disappear.)

     Our Guinness holding represents Berkshire's first significant 
investment in a company domiciled outside the United States. 
Guinness, however, earns its money in much the same fashion as 
Coca-Cola and Gillette, U.S.-based companies that garner most of 
their profits from international operations. Indeed, in the sense 
of where they earn their profits - continent-by-continent - Coca-
Cola and Guinness display strong similarities. (But you'll never 
get their drinks confused - and your Chairman remains unmovably in 
the Cherry Coke camp.)

     We continually search for large businesses with 
understandable, enduring and mouth-watering economics that are run 
by able and shareholder-oriented managements. This focus doesn't 
guarantee results: We both have to buy at a sensible price and get 
business performance from our companies that validates our 
assessment. But this investment approach - searching for the 
superstars - offers us our only chance for real success. Charlie 
and I are simply not smart enough, considering the large sums we 
work with, to get great results by adroitly buying and selling 
portions of far-from-great businesses. Nor do we think many others 
can achieve long-term investment success by flitting from flower to 
flower. Indeed, we believe that according the name "investors" to 
institutions that trade actively is like calling someone who 
repeatedly engages in one-night stands a romantic.

     If my universe of business possibilities was limited, say, to 
private companies in Omaha, I would, first, try to assess the long-
term economic characteristics of each business; second, assess the 
quality of the people in charge of running it; and, third, try to 
buy into a few of the best operations at a sensible price. I 
certainly would not wish to own an equal part of every business in 
town. Why, then, should Berkshire take a different tack when 
dealing with the larger universe of public companies? And since 
finding great businesses and outstanding managers is so difficult, 
why should we discard proven products? (I was tempted to say "the 
real thing.") Our motto is: "If at first you do succeed, quit 
trying."

     John Maynard Keynes, whose brilliance as a practicing investor 
matched his brilliance in thought, wrote a letter to a business 
associate, F. C. Scott, on August 15, 1934 that says it all: "As 
time goes on, I get more and more convinced that the right method 
in investment is to put fairly large sums into enterprises which 
one thinks one knows something about and in the management of which 
one thoroughly believes.  It is a mistake to think that one limits 
one's risk by spreading too much between enterprises about which 
one knows little and has no reason for special confidence. . . . 
One's knowledge and experience are definitely limited and there are 
seldom more than two or three enterprises at any given time in 
which I personally feel myself entitled to put full confidence."

Mistake Du Jour

     In the 1989 annual report I wrote about "Mistakes of the First 
25 Years" and promised you an update in 2015. My experiences in the 
first few years of this second "semester" indicate that my backlog 
of matters to be discussed will become unmanageable if I stick to 
my original plan. Therefore, I will occasionally unburden myself in 
these pages in the hope that public confession may deter further 
bumblings. (Post-mortems prove useful for hospitals and football 
teams; why not for businesses and investors?)

     Typically, our most egregious mistakes fall in the omission, 
rather than the commission, category. That may spare Charlie and me 
some embarrassment, since you don't see these errors; but their 
invisibility does not reduce their cost. In this mea culpa, I am 
not talking about missing out on some company that depends upon an 
esoteric invention (such as Xerox), high-technology (Apple), or 
even brilliant merchandising (Wal-Mart). We will never develop the 
competence to spot such businesses early. Instead I refer to 
business situations that Charlie and I can understand and that seem 
clearly attractive - but in which we nevertheless end up sucking 
our thumbs rather than buying.

     Every writer knows it helps to use striking examples, but I 
wish the one I now present wasn't quite so dramatic: In early 1988, 
we decided to buy 30 million shares (adjusted for a subsequent 
split) of Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae), which 
would have been a $350-$400 million investment. We had owned the 
stock some years earlier and understood the company's business. 
Furthermore, it was clear to us that David Maxwell, Fannie Mae's 
CEO, had dealt superbly with some problems that he had inherited 
and had established the company as a financial powerhouse - with 
the best yet to come. I visited David in Washington and confirmed 
that he would not be uncomfortable if we were to take a large 
position.

     After we bought about 7 million shares, the price began to 
climb. In frustration, I stopped buying (a mistake that, 
thankfully, I did not repeat when Coca-Cola stock rose similarly 
during our purchase program).  In an even sillier move, I 
surrendered to my distaste for holding small positions and sold the 
7 million shares we owned.

     I wish I could give you a halfway rational explanation for my 
amateurish behavior vis-a-vis Fannie Mae.  But there isn't one. 
What I can give you is an estimate as of yearend 1991 of the 
approximate gain that Berkshire didn't make because of your 
Chairman's mistake: about $1.4 billion.

Fixed-Income Securities

     We made several significant changes in our fixed-income 
portfolio during 1991. As I noted earlier, our Gillette preferred 
was called for redemption, which forced us to convert to common 
stock; we eliminated our holdings of an RJR Nabisco issue that was 
subject to an exchange offer and subsequent call; and we purchased 
fixed-income securities of American Express and First Empire State 
Corp., a Buffalo-based bank holding company. We also added to a 
small position in ACF Industries that we had established in late 
1990.  Our largest holdings at yearend were:

                                              (000s omitted)   
                                  ---------------------------------------            
                                   Cost of Preferreds and
   Issuer                         Amortized Value of Bonds      Market
   ------                         ------------------------   ------------
   ACF Industries ................       $ 93,918(2)          $118,683
   American Express ..............        300,000              263,265(1)(2)
   Champion International ........        300,000(2)           300,000(1)
   First Empire State                      40,000               50,000(1)(2)
   RJR Nabisco                            222,148(2)           285,683
   Salomon                                700,000(2)           714,000(1)
   USAir                                  358,000(2)           232,700(1)
   Washington Public Power Systems        158,553(2)           203,071

	(1) Fair value as determined by Charlie and me
	(2) Carrying value in our financial statements

     Our $40 million of First Empire State preferred carries a 9% 
coupon, is non-callable until 1996 and is convertible at $78.91 per 
share. Normally I would think a purchase of this size too small for 
Berkshire, but I have enormous respect for Bob Wilmers, CEO of 
First Empire, and like being his partner on any scale.

     Our American Express preferred is not a normal fixed-income 
security. Rather it is a "Perc," which carries a fixed dividend of 
8.85% on our $300 million cost. Absent one exception mentioned 
later, our preferred must be converted three years after issuance, 
into a maximum of 12,244,898 shares. If necessary, a downward 
adjustment in the conversion ratio will be made in order to limit 
to $414 million the total value of the common we receive. Though 
there is thus a ceiling on the value of the common stock that we 
will receive upon conversion, there is no floor. The terms of the 
preferred, however, include a provision allowing us to extend the 
conversion date by one year if the common stock is below $24.50 on 
the third anniversary of our purchase.

     Overall, our fixed-income investments have treated us well, 
both over the long term and recently. We have realized large 
capital gains from these holdings, including about $152 million in 
1991. Additionally, our after-tax yields have considerably exceeded 
those earned by most fixed-income portfolios.

     Nevertheless, we have had some surprises, none greater than 
the need for me to involve myself personally and intensely in the 
Salomon situation. As I write this letter, I am also writing a 
letter for inclusion in Salomon's annual report and I refer you to 
that report for an update on the company. (Write to: Corporate 
Secretary, Salomon Inc, Seven World Trade Center, New York, NY  
10048) Despite the company's travails, Charlie and I believe our 
Salomon preferred stock increased slightly in value during 1991.  
Lower interest rates and a higher price for Salomon's common 
produced this result.

     Last year I told you that our USAir investment "should work 
out all right unless the industry is decimated during the next few 
years." Unfortunately 1991 was a decimating period for the 
industry, as Midway, Pan Am and America West all entered 
bankruptcy. (Stretch the period to 14 months and you can add 
Continental and TWA.)

     The low valuation that we have given USAir in our table 
reflects the risk that the industry will remain unprofitable for 
virtually all participants in it, a risk that is far from 
negligible. The risk is heightened by the fact that the courts have 
been encouraging bankrupt carriers to continue operating. These 
carriers can temporarily charge fares that are below the industry's 
costs because the bankrupts don't incur the capital costs faced by 
their solvent brethren and because they can fund their losses - and 
thereby stave off shutdown - by selling off assets. This burn-the-
furniture-to-provide-firewood approach to fare-setting by bankrupt 
carriers contributes to the toppling of previously-marginal 
carriers, creating a domino effect that is perfectly designed to 
bring the industry to its knees.

     Seth Schofield, who became CEO of USAir in 1991, is making 
major adjustments in the airline's operations in order to improve 
its chances of being one of the few industry survivors. There is no 
tougher job in corporate America than running an airline: Despite 
the huge amounts of equity capital that have been injected into it, 
the industry, in aggregate, has posted a net loss since its birth 
after Kitty Hawk.  Airline managers need brains, guts, and 
experience - and Seth possesses all three of these attributes.

Miscellaneous

     About 97.7% of all eligible shares participated in Berkshire's 
1991 shareholder-designated contributions program. Contributions 
made through the program were $6.8 million, and 2,630 charities 
were recipients.

     We suggest that new shareholders read the description of our 
shareholder-designated contributions program that appears on pages 
48-49. To participate in future programs, you must make sure your 
shares are registered in the name of the actual owner, not in the 
nominee name of a broker, bank or depository.  Shares not so 
registered on August 31, 1992 will be ineligible for the 1992 
program.

     In addition to the shareholder-designated contributions that 
Berkshire distributes, managers of our operating businesses make 
contributions, including merchandise, averaging about $1.5 million 
annually.  These contributions support local charities, such as The 
United Way, and produce roughly commensurate benefits for our 
businesses.

     However, neither our operating managers nor officers of the 
parent company use Berkshire funds to make contributions to broad 
national programs or charitable activities of special personal 
interest to them, except to the extent they do so as shareholders. 
If your employees, including your CEO, wish to give to their alma 
maters or other institutions to which they feel a personal 
attachment, we believe they should use their own money, not yours.

                    * * * * * * * * * * * *

     The faithful will notice that, for the first time in some 
years, Charlie's annual letter to Wesco shareholders is not 
reprinted in this report. Since his letter is relatively barebones 
this year, Charlie said he saw no point in including it in these 
pages; my own recommendation, however, is that you get a copy of 
the Wesco report. Simply write: Corporate Secretary, Wesco 
Financial Corporation, 315 East Colorado Boulevard, Pasadena, CA  
91101.

                    * * * * * * * * * * * *

     Malcolm G. Chace, Jr., now 88, has decided not to stand for 
election as a director this year.  But the association of the Chace 
family with Berkshire will not end: Malcolm III (Kim), Malcolm's 
son, will be nominated to replace him.

     In 1931, Malcolm went to work for Berkshire Fine Spinning 
Associates, which merged with Hathaway Manufacturing Co. in 1955 to 
form our present company. Two years later, Malcolm became Berkshire 
Hathaway's Chairman, a position he held as well in early 1965 when 
he made it possible for Buffett Partnership, Ltd. to buy a key 
block of Berkshire stock owned by some of his relatives.  This 
purchase gave our partnership effective control of the company. 
Malcolm's immediate family meanwhile kept its Berkshire stock and 
for the last 27 years has had the second-largest holding in the 
company, trailing only the Buffett family. Malcolm has been a joy 
to work with and we are delighted that the long-running 
relationship between the Chace family and Berkshire is continuing 
to a new generation.


                    * * * * * * * * * * * *

     The annual meeting this year will be held at the Orpheum 
Theater in downtown Omaha at 9:30 a.m. on Monday, April 27, 1992. 
Attendance last year grew to a record 1,550, but that still leaves 
plenty of room at the Orpheum.

     We recommend that you get your hotel reservations early at one 
of these hotels: (1) The Radisson-Redick Tower, a small (88 rooms) 
but nice hotel across the street from the Orpheum; (2) the much 
larger Red Lion Hotel, located about a five-minute walk from the 
Orpheum; or (3) the Marriott, located in West Omaha about 100 yards 
from Borsheim's and a twenty minute drive from downtown. We will 
have buses at the Marriott that will leave at 8:30 and 8:45 for the 
meeting and return after it ends.

     Charlie and I always enjoy the meeting, and we hope you can 
make it. The quality of our shareholders is reflected in the 
quality of the questions we get: We have never attended an annual 
meeting anywhere that features such a consistently high level of 
intelligent, owner-related questions.

     An attachment to our proxy material explains how you can 
obtain the card you will need for admission to the meeting. With 
the admission card, we will enclose information about parking 
facilities located near the Orpheum. If you are driving, come a 
little early.  Nearby lots fill up quickly and you may have to 
walk a few blocks.

     As usual, we will have buses to take you to Nebraska Furniture 
Mart and Borsheim's after the meeting and to take you from there to 
downtown hotels or the airport later. I hope that you will allow 
plenty of time to fully explore the attractions of both stores. 
Those of you arriving early can visit the Furniture Mart any day of 
the week; it is open from 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. on Saturdays and 
from noon to 5:30 p.m. on Sundays. While there, stop at the See's 
Candy Cart and find out for yourself why Americans ate 26 million 
pounds of See's products last year.

     Borsheim's normally is closed on Sunday, but we will be open 
for shareholders and their guests from noon to 6 p.m. on Sunday, 
April 26. Borsheim's will also have a special party the previous 
evening at which shareholders are welcome. (You must, however, 
write Mrs. Gladys Kaiser at our office for an invitation.) On 
display that evening will be a 150-year retrospective of the most 
exceptional timepieces made by Patek Philippe, including watches 
once owned by Queen Victoria, Pope Pius IX, Rudyard Kipling, Madame 
Curie and Albert Einstein. The centerpiece of the exhibition will 
be a $5 million watch whose design and manufacture required nine 
years of labor by Patek Philippe craftsmen.  Along with the rest of 
the collection, this watch will be on display at the store on 
Sunday - unless Charlie has by then impulsively bought it.

     Nicholas Kenner nailed me - again - at last year's meeting, 
pointing out that I had said in the 1990 annual report that he was 
11 in May 1990, when actually he was 9. So, asked Nicholas rather 
caustically: "If you can't get that straight, how do I know the 
numbers in the back [the financials] are correct?" I'm still 
searching for a snappy response. Nicholas will be at this year's 
meeting - he spurned my offer of a trip to Disney World on that 
day - so join us to watch a continuation of this lop-sided battle 
of wits.



                                    Warren E. Buffett
February 28, 1992                   Chairman of the Board
 







Chairman's Letter - 1992



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.



To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:


     Our per-share book value increased 20.3% during 1992.  Over 
the last 28 years (that is, since present management took over) 
book value has grown from $19 to $7,745, or at a rate of 23.6% 
compounded annually.

     During the year, Berkshire's net worth increased by $1.52 
billion.  More than 98% of this gain came from earnings and 
appreciation of portfolio securities, with the remainder coming 
from the issuance of new stock.  These shares were issued as a 
result of our calling our convertible debentures for redemption 
on January 4, 1993, and of some holders electing to receive 
common shares rather than the cash that was their alternative.  
Most holders of the debentures who converted into common waited 
until January to do it, but a few made the move in December and 
therefore received shares in 1992.  To sum up what happened to 
the $476 million of bonds we had outstanding:  $25 million were 
converted into shares before yearend; $46 million were converted 
in January; and $405 million were redeemed for cash.  The 
conversions were made at $11,719 per share, so altogether we 
issued 6,106 shares.

     Berkshire now has 1,152,547 shares outstanding.  That 
compares, you will be interested to know, to 1,137,778 shares 
outstanding on October 1, 1964, the beginning of the fiscal year 
during which Buffett Partnership, Ltd. acquired control of the 
company.

     We have a firm policy about issuing shares of Berkshire, 
doing so only when we receive as much value as we give.  Equal 
value, however, has not been easy to obtain, since we have always 
valued our shares highly.  So be it:  We wish to increase 
Berkshire's size only when doing that also increases the wealth 
of its owners.

    Those two objectives do not necessarily go hand-in-hand as an 
amusing but value-destroying experience in our past illustrates. 
On that occasion, we had a significant investment in a bank 
whose management was hell-bent on expansion.  (Aren't they all?) 
When our bank wooed a smaller bank, its owner demanded a stock 
swap on a basis that valued the acquiree's net worth and earning 
power at over twice that of the acquirer's.  Our management - 
visibly in heat - quickly capitulated.  The owner of the acquiree 
then insisted on one other condition:  "You must promise me," he 
said in effect, "that once our merger is done and I have become a 
major shareholder, you'll never again make a deal this dumb."

     You will remember that our goal is to increase our per-share 
intrinsic value - for which our book value is a conservative, but 
useful, proxy - at a 15% annual rate.  This objective, however, 
cannot be attained in a smooth manner.  Smoothness is 
particularly elusive because of the accounting rules that apply 
to the common stocks owned by our insurance companies, whose 
portfolios represent a high proportion of Berkshire's net worth. 
Since 1979, generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) have 
required that these securities be valued at their market prices 
(less an adjustment for tax on any net unrealized appreciation) 
rather than at the lower of cost or market.  Run-of-the-mill 
fluctuations in equity prices therefore cause our annual results 
to gyrate, especially in comparison to those of the typical 
industrial company.

     To illustrate just how volatile our progress has been - and 
to indicate the impact that market movements have on short-term 
results - we show on the facing page our annual change in per-
share net worth and compare it with the annual results (including 
dividends) of the S&P 500.

     You should keep at least three points in mind as you 
evaluate this data.  The first point concerns the many businesses 
we operate whose annual earnings are unaffected by changes in 
stock market valuations.  The impact of these businesses on both 
our absolute and relative performance has changed over the years. 
Early on, returns from our textile operation, which then 
represented a significant portion of our net worth, were a major 
drag on performance, averaging far less than would have been the 
case if the money invested in that business had instead been 
invested in the S&P 500.  In more recent years, as we assembled 
our collection of exceptional businesses run by equally 
exceptional managers, the returns from our operating businesses 
have been high - usually well in excess of the returns achieved 
by the S&P.

     A second important factor to consider - and one that 
significantly hurts our relative performance - is that both the 
income and capital gains from our securities are burdened by a 
substantial corporate tax liability whereas the S&P returns are 
pre-tax.  To comprehend the damage, imagine that Berkshire had 
owned nothing other than the S&P index during the 28-year period 
covered. In that case, the tax bite would have caused our 
corporate performance to be appreciably below the record shown in 
the table for the S&P.  Under present tax laws, a gain for the 
S&P of 18% delivers a corporate holder of that index a return 
well short of 13%.  And this problem would be intensified if 
corporate tax rates were to rise.  This is a structural 
disadvantage we simply have to live with; there is no antidote 
for it.

     The third point incorporates two predictions:  Charlie 
Munger, Berkshire's Vice Chairman and my partner, and I are 
virtually certain that the return over the next decade from an 
investment in the S&P index will be far less than that of the 
past decade, and we are dead certain that the drag exerted by 
Berkshire's expanding capital base will substantially reduce our 
historical advantage relative to the index.

     Making the first prediction goes somewhat against our grain: 
We've long felt that the only value of stock forecasters is to 
make fortune tellers look good.  Even now, Charlie and I continue 
to believe that short-term market forecasts are poison and should 
be kept locked up in a safe place, away from children and also 
from grown-ups who behave in the market like children.  However, 
it is clear that stocks cannot forever overperform their 
underlying businesses, as they have so dramatically done for some 
time, and that fact makes us quite confident of our forecast that 
the rewards from investing in stocks over the next decade will be 
significantly smaller than they were in the last.  Our second 
conclusion - that an increased capital base will act as an anchor 
on our relative performance - seems incontestable.  The only open 
question is whether we can drag the anchor along at some 
tolerable, though slowed, pace.

     We will continue to experience considerable volatility in 
our annual results.  That's assured by the general volatility of 
the stock market, by the concentration of our equity holdings in 
just a few companies, and by certain business decisions we have 
made, most especially our move to commit large resources to 
super-catastrophe insurance.  We not only accept this volatility 
but welcome it:  A tolerance for short-term swings improves our 
long-term prospects.  In baseball lingo, our performance 
yardstick is slugging percentage, not batting average.

The Salomon Interlude

     Last June, I stepped down as Interim Chairman of Salomon Inc 
after ten months in the job.  You can tell from Berkshire's 1991-
92 results that the company didn't miss me while I was gone.  But 
the reverse isn't true:  I missed Berkshire and am delighted to 
be back full-time.  There is no job in the world that is more fun 
than running Berkshire and I count myself lucky to be where I am.

     The Salomon post, though far from fun, was interesting and 
worthwhile:  In Fortune's annual survey of America's Most Admired 
Corporations, conducted last September, Salomon ranked second 
among 311 companies in the degree to which it improved its 
reputation.  Additionally, Salomon Brothers, the securities 
subsidiary of Salomon Inc, reported record pre-tax earnings last 
year - 34% above the previous high.

     Many people helped in the resolution of Salomon's problems 
and the righting of the firm, but a few clearly deserve special 
mention.  It is no exaggeration to say that without the combined 
efforts of Salomon executives Deryck Maughan, Bob Denham, Don 
Howard, and John Macfarlane, the firm very probably would not 
have survived.  In their work, these men were tireless, 
effective, supportive and selfless, and I will forever be 
grateful to them.

     Salomon's lead lawyer in its Government matters, Ron Olson 
of Munger, Tolles & Olson, was also key to our success in getting 
through this trouble.  The firm's problems were not only severe, 
but complex.  At least five authorities - the SEC, the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, the U.S. Treasury, the U.S. Attorney 
for the Southern District of New York, and the Antitrust Division 
of the Department of Justice - had important concerns about 
Salomon.  If we were to resolve our problems in a coordinated and 
prompt manner, we needed a lawyer with exceptional legal, 
business and human skills.  Ron had them all.

Acquisitions

     Of all our activities at Berkshire, the most exhilarating 
for Charlie and me is the acquisition of a business with 
excellent economic characteristics and a management that we like, 
trust and admire.  Such acquisitions are not easy to make but we 
look for them constantly.  In the search, we adopt the same 
attitude one might find appropriate in looking for a spouse:  It 
pays to be active, interested and open-minded, but it does not 
pay to be in a hurry.

     In the past, I've observed that many acquisition-hungry 
managers were apparently mesmerized by their childhood reading of 
the story about the frog-kissing princess.  Remembering her 
success, they pay dearly for the right to kiss corporate toads, 
expecting wondrous transfigurations.  Initially, disappointing 
results only deepen their desire to round up new toads.  
("Fanaticism," said Santyana, "consists of redoubling your effort 
when you've forgotten your aim.")  Ultimately, even the most 
optimistic manager must face reality.  Standing knee-deep in 
unresponsive toads, he then announces an enormous "restructuring" 
charge.  In this corporate equivalent of a Head Start program, 
the CEO receives the education but the stockholders pay the 
tuition.

     In my early days as a manager I, too, dated a few toads.  
They were cheap dates - I've never been much of a sport - but my 
results matched those of acquirers who courted higher-priced 
toads.  I kissed and they croaked.

     After several failures of this type, I finally remembered 
some useful advice I once got from a golf pro (who, like all pros 
who have had anything to do with my game, wishes to remain 
anonymous).  Said the pro:  "Practice doesn't make perfect; 
practice makes permanent."  And thereafter I revised my strategy 
and tried to buy good businesses at fair prices rather than fair 
businesses at good prices.

     Last year, in December, we made an acquisition that is a 
prototype of what we now look for.  The purchase was 82% of 
Central States Indemnity, an insurer that makes monthly payments 
for credit-card holders who are unable themselves to pay because 
they have become disabled or unemployed.  Currently the company's 
annual premiums are about $90 million and profits about $10 
million.  Central States is based in Omaha and managed by Bill 
Kizer, a friend of mine for over 35 years.  The Kizer family - 
which includes sons Bill, Dick and John - retains 18% ownership 
of the business and will continue to run things just as it has in 
the past.  We could not be associated with better people.

     Coincidentally, this latest acquisition has much in common 
with our first, made 26 years ago.  At that time, we purchased 
another Omaha insurer, National Indemnity Company (along with a 
small sister company) from Jack Ringwalt, another long-time 
friend.  Jack had built the business from scratch and, as was the 
case with Bill Kizer, thought of me when he wished to sell.  
(Jack's comment at the time:  "If I don't sell the company, my 
executor will, and I'd rather pick the home for it.")  National 
Indemnity was an outstanding business when we bought it and 
continued to be under Jack's management.  Hollywood has had good 
luck with sequels; I believe we, too, will.

     Berkshire's acquisition criteria are described on page 23.  
Beyond purchases made by the parent company, however, our 
subsidiaries sometimes make small "add-on" acquisitions that 
extend their product lines or distribution capabilities.  In this 
manner, we enlarge the domain of managers we already know to be 
outstanding - and that's a low-risk and high-return proposition. 
We made five acquisitions of this type in 1992, and one was not 
so small:  At yearend, H. H. Brown purchased Lowell Shoe Company, 
a business with $90 million in sales that makes Nursemates, a 
leading line of shoes for nurses, and other kinds of shoes as 
well.  Our operating managers will continue to look for add-on 
opportunities, and we would expect these to contribute modestly 
to Berkshire's value in the future.

     Then again, a trend has emerged that may make further 
acquisitions difficult.  The parent company made one purchase in 
1991, buying H. H. Brown, which is run by Frank Rooney, who has 
eight children.  In 1992 our only deal was with Bill Kizer, 
father of nine.  It won't be easy to keep this string going in 
1993.

Sources of Reported Earnings

     The table below shows the major sources of Berkshire's 
reported earnings.  In this presentation, amortization of 
Goodwill and other major purchase-price accounting adjustments 
are not charged against the specific businesses to which they 
apply, but are instead aggregated and shown separately.  This 
procedure lets you view the earnings of our businesses as they 
would have been reported had we not purchased them.  I've 
explained in past reports why this form of presentation seems to 
us to be more useful to investors and managers than one utilizing 
GAAP, which requires purchase-price adjustments to be made on a 
business-by-business basis.  The total net earnings we show in 
the table are, of course, identical to the GAAP total in our 
audited financial statements.
				         
                                          (000s omitted)
                            -----------------------------------------------
                                                          Berkshire's Share  
                                                           of Net Earnings  
                                                          (after taxes and  
                                 Pre-Tax Earnings        minority interests)
                              ----------------------  ----------------------  
                                 1992        1991        1992        1991
                              ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Operating Earnings:
  Insurance Group:
    Underwriting ............ $(108,961)  $(119,593)  $ (71,141)  $ (77,229)
    Net Investment Income....   355,067     331,846     305,763     285,173 
  H. H. Brown (acquired 7/1/91)  27,883      13,616      17,340       8,611 
  Buffalo News ..............    47,863      37,113      28,163      21,841 
  Fechheimer ................    13,698      12,947       7,267       6,843 
  Kirby .....................    35,653      35,726      22,795      22,555 
  Nebraska Furniture Mart ...    17,110      14,384       8,072       6,993 
  Scott Fetzer 
     Manufacturing Group ....    31,954      26,123      19,883      15,901 
  See's Candies .............    42,357      42,390      25,501      25,575 
  Wesco - other than Insurance   15,153      12,230       9,195       8,777 
  World Book ................    29,044      22,483      19,503      15,487 
  Amortization of Goodwill ..    (4,702)     (4,113)     (4,687)     (4,098)
  Other Purchase-Price 
     Accounting Charges .....    (7,385)     (6,021)     (8,383)     (7,019)
  Interest Expense* .........   (98,643)    (89,250)    (62,899)    (57,165)
  Shareholder-Designated 
     Contributions ..........    (7,634)     (6,772)     (4,913)     (4,388)
  Other .....................    72,223      77,399      36,267      47,896 
                              ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Operating Earnings ..........   460,680     400,508     347,726     315,753 
Sales of Securities .........    89,937     192,478      59,559     124,155 
                              ----------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Total Earnings - All Entities $ 550,617   $ 592,986   $ 407,285   $ 439,908 
                              ==========  ==========  ==========  ==========

*Excludes interest expense of Scott Fetzer Financial Group and Mutual 
 Savings & Loan.  Includes $22.5 million in 1992 and $5.7 million in 
 1991 of premiums paid on the early redemption of debt.


     A large amount of additional information about these 
businesses is given on pages 37-47, where you will also find our 
segment earnings reported on a GAAP basis.  Our goal is to give you 
all of the financial information that Charlie and I consider 
significant in making our own evaluation of Berkshire.

"Look-Through" Earnings

     We've previously discussed look-through earnings, which 
consist of: (1) the operating earnings reported in the previous 
section, plus; (2) the retained operating earnings of major 
investees that, under GAAP accounting, are not reflected in our 
profits, less; (3) an allowance for the tax that would be paid by 
Berkshire if these retained earnings of investees had instead been 
distributed to us.  Though no single figure can be perfect, we 
believe that the look-through number more accurately portrays the 
earnings of Berkshire than does the GAAP number.

     I've told you that over time look-through earnings must 
increase at about 15% annually if our intrinsic business value is 
to grow at that rate.  Our look-through earnings in 1992 were $604 
million, and they will need to grow to more than $1.8 billion by 
the year 2000 if we are to meet that 15% goal.  For us to get 
there, our operating subsidiaries and investees must deliver 
excellent performances, and we must exercise some skill in capital 
allocation as well.

     We cannot promise to achieve the $1.8 billion target.  Indeed, 
we may not even come close to it.  But it does guide our decision-
making:  When we allocate capital today, we are thinking about what 
will maximize look-through earnings in 2000.

     We do not, however, see this long-term focus as eliminating 
the need for us to achieve decent short-term results as well.  
After all, we were thinking long-range thoughts five or ten years 
ago, and the moves we made then should now be paying off.  If 
plantings made confidently are repeatedly followed by disappointing 
harvests, something is wrong with the farmer.  (Or perhaps with the 
farm:  Investors should understand that for certain companies, and 
even for some industries, there simply is no good long-term 
strategy.)  Just as you should be suspicious of managers who pump 
up short-term earnings by accounting maneuvers, asset sales and the 
like, so also should you be suspicious of those managers who fail 
to deliver for extended periods and blame it on their long-term 
focus.  (Even Alice, after listening to the Queen lecture her about 
"jam tomorrow," finally insisted, "It must come sometimes to jam 
today.")

     The following table shows you how we calculate look-through 
earnings, though I warn you that the figures are necessarily very 
rough.  (The dividends paid to us by these investees have been 
included in the operating earnings itemized on page 8, mostly 
under "Insurance Group:  Net Investment Income.") 

                                                          Berkshire's Share
                                                          of Undistributed
                               Berkshire's Approximate   Operating Earnings 
Berkshire's Major Investees     Ownership at Yearend        (in millions)  
---------------------------    -----------------------   ------------------
                                   1992       1991         1992      1991
                                 --------   --------     --------  --------
Capital Cities/ABC Inc. .......   18.2%      18.1%        $ 70      $ 61
The Coca-Cola Company .........    7.1%       7.0%          82        69
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.   8.2%(1)    3.4%(1)       29(2)     15
GEICO Corp. ...................   48.1%      48.2%          34(3)     69(3)
General Dynamics Corp. ........   14.1%       --            11(2)     -- 
The Gillette Company ..........   10.9%      11.0%          38        23(2)
Guinness PLC ..................    2.0%       1.6%           7        -- 
The Washington Post Company ...   14.6%      14.6%          11        10
Wells Fargo & Company .........   11.5%       9.6%          16(2)    (17)(2)
                                 --------   --------     --------  --------
Berkshire's share of 
  undistributed earnings of major investees               $298      $230
Hypothetical tax on these 
  undistributed investee earnings                          (42)      (30)
Reported operating earnings of Berkshire                   348       316 
                                                         --------  --------
     Total look-through earnings of Berkshire             $604      $516 

     (1) Net of minority interest at Wesco
     (2) Calculated on average ownership for the year
     (3) Excludes realized capital gains, which have been both 
recurring and significant

Insurance Operations

     Shown below is an updated version of our usual table 
presenting key figures for the property-casualty insurance 
industry:

                                 Yearly Change        Combined Ratio 
                                  in Premiums       After Policyholder
                                  Written (%)           Dividends
                                 -------------      ------------------

1981 ...........................      3.8                 106.0
1982 ...........................      3.7                 109.6
1983 ...........................      5.0                 112.0
1984 ...........................      8.5                 118.0
1985 ...........................     22.1                 116.3
1986 ...........................     22.2                 108.0
1987 ...........................      9.4                 104.6
1988 ...........................      4.5                 105.4
1989 ...........................      3.2                 109.2
1990 ...........................      4.5                 109.6
1991 (Revised) .................      2.4                 108.8
1992 (Est.) ....................      2.7                 114.8

     The combined ratio represents total insurance costs (losses 
incurred plus expenses) compared to revenue from premiums:  A 
ratio below 100 indicates an underwriting profit, and one above 
100 indicates a loss.  The higher the ratio, the worse the year. 
When the investment income that an insurer earns from holding 
policyholders' funds ("the float") is taken into account, a 
combined ratio in the 106 - 110 range typically produces an 
overall break-even result, exclusive of earnings on the funds 
provided by shareholders.

     About four points in the industry's 1992 combined ratio can 
be attributed to Hurricane Andrew, which caused the largest 
insured loss in history.  Andrew destroyed a few small insurers. 
Beyond that, it awakened some larger companies to the fact that 
their reinsurance protection against catastrophes was far from 
adequate.  (It's only when the tide goes out that you learn who's 
been swimming naked.)  One major insurer escaped insolvency 
solely because it had a wealthy parent that could promptly supply 
a massive transfusion of capital.

     Bad as it was, however, Andrew could easily have been far 
more damaging if it had hit Florida 20 or 30 miles north of where 
it actually did and had hit Louisiana further east than was the 
case.  All in all, many companies will rethink their reinsurance 
programs in light of the Andrew experience.

     As you know we are a large writer - perhaps the largest in 
the world - of "super-cat" coverages, which are the policies that 
other insurance companies buy to protect themselves against major 
catastrophic losses.  Consequently, we too took our lumps from 
Andrew, suffering losses from it of about $125 million, an amount 
roughly equal to our 1992 super-cat premium income.  Our other 
super-cat losses, though, were negligible.  This line of business 
therefore produced an overall loss of only $2 million for the 
year.  (In addition, our investee, GEICO, suffered a net loss 
from Andrew, after reinsurance recoveries and tax savings, of 
about $50 million, of which our share is roughly $25 million.  
This loss did not affect our operating earnings, but did reduce 
our look-through earnings.)

     In last year's report I told you that I hoped that our 
super-cat business would over time achieve a 10% profit margin.  
But I also warned you that in any given year the line was likely 
to be "either enormously profitable or enormously unprofitable." 
Instead, both 1991 and 1992 have come in close to a break-even 
level.  Nonetheless, I see these results as aberrations and stick 
with my prediction of huge annual swings in profitability from 
this business.

     Let me remind you of some characteristics of our super-cat 
policies.  Generally, they are activated only when two things 
happen.  First, the direct insurer or reinsurer we protect must 
suffer losses of a given amount - that's the policyholder's 
"retention" - from a catastrophe; and second, industry-wide 
insured losses from the catastrophe must exceed some minimum 
level, which usually is $3 billion or more.  In most cases, the 
policies we issue cover only a specific geographical area, such 
as a portion of the U.S., the entire U.S., or everywhere other 
than the U.S.  Also, many policies are not activated by the first 
super-cat that meets the policy terms, but instead cover only a 
"second-event" or even a third- or fourth-event.  Finally, some 
policies are triggered only by a catastrophe of a specific type, 
such as an earthquake.  Our exposures are large: We have one 
policy that calls for us to pay $100 million to the policyholder 
if a specified catastrophe occurs.  (Now you know why I suffer 
eyestrain:  from watching The Weather Channel.)

     Currently, Berkshire is second in the U.S. property-casualty 
industry in net worth (the leader being State Farm, which neither 
buys nor sells reinsurance).  Therefore, we have the capacity to 
assume risk on a scale that interests virtually no other company. 
We have the appetite as well:  As Berkshire's net worth and 
earnings grow, our willingness to write business increases also. 
But let me add that means good business.  The saying, "a fool 
and his money are soon invited everywhere," applies in spades in 
reinsurance, and we actually reject more than 98% of the business 
we are offered.  Our ability to choose between good and bad 
proposals reflects a management strength that matches our 
financial strength:  Ajit Jain, who runs our reinsurance 
operation, is simply the best in this business.  In combination, 
these strengths guarantee that we will stay a major factor in the 
super-cat business so long as prices are appropriate.

     What constitutes an appropriate price, of course, is 
difficult to determine.  Catastrophe insurers can't simply 
extrapolate past experience.  If there is truly "global warming," 
for example, the odds would shift, since tiny changes in 
atmospheric conditions can produce momentous changes in weather 
patterns.  Furthermore, in recent years there has been a 
mushrooming of population and insured values in U.S. coastal 
areas that are particularly vulnerable to hurricanes, the number 
one creator of super-cats.  A hurricane that caused x dollars of 
damage 20 years ago could easily cost 10x now.

     Occasionally, also, the unthinkable happens.  Who would have 
guessed, for example, that a major earthquake could occur in 
Charleston, S.C.? (It struck in 1886, registered an estimated 6.6 
on the Richter scale, and caused 60 deaths.)  And who could have 
imagined that our country's most serious quake would occur at New 
Madrid, Missouri, which suffered an estimated 8.7 shocker in 
1812.  By comparison, the 1989 San Francisco quake was a 7.1 - 
and remember that each one-point Richter increase represents a 
ten-fold increase in strength.  Someday, a U.S. earthquake 
occurring far from California will cause enormous losses for 
insurers.

     When viewing our quarterly figures, you should understand 
that our accounting for super-cat premiums differs from our 
accounting for other insurance premiums.  Rather than recording 
our super-cat premiums on a pro-rata basis over the life of a 
given policy, we defer recognition of revenue until a loss occurs 
or until the policy expires.  We take this conservative approach 
because the likelihood of super-cats causing us losses is 
particularly great toward the end of the year.  It is then that 
weather tends to kick up:  Of the ten largest insured losses in 
U.S. history, nine occurred in the last half of the year.  In 
addition, policies that are not triggered by a first event are 
unlikely, by their very terms, to cause us losses until late in 
the year.

     The bottom-line effect of our accounting procedure for 
super-cats is this:  Large losses may be reported in any quarter 
of the year, but significant profits will only be reported in the 
fourth quarter.

                    * * * * * * * * * * * *

     As I've told you in each of the last few years, what counts 
in our insurance business is "the cost of funds developed from 
insurance," or in the vernacular, "the cost of float."  Float - 
which we generate in exceptional amounts - is the total of loss 
reserves, loss adjustment expense reserves and unearned premium 
reserves minus agents' balances, prepaid acquisition costs and 
deferred charges applicable to assumed reinsurance.  The cost of 
float is measured by our underwriting loss.

     The table below shows our cost of float since we entered the 
business in 1967.

                   (1)            (2)                          Yearend Yield
              Underwriting                     Approximate      on Long-Term
                  Loss       Average Float    Cost of Funds     Govt. Bonds 	
              ------------   -------------   ---------------   -------------
                    (In $ Millions)         (Ratio of 1 to 2)

1967 .........   profit          $17.3        less than zero        5.50%
1968 .........   profit           19.9        less than zero        5.90%
1969 .........   profit           23.4        less than zero        6.79%
1970 .........   $ 0.37           32.4                 1.14%        6.25%
1971 .........   profit           52.5        less than zero        5.81%
1972 .........   profit           69.5        less than zero        5.82%
1973 .........   profit           73.3        less than zero        7.27%
1974 .........     7.36           79.1                 9.30%        8.13%
1975 .........    11.35           87.6                12.96%        8.03%
1976 .........   profit          102.6        less than zero        7.30%
1977 .........   profit          139.0        less than zero        7.97%
1978 .........   profit          190.4        less than zero        8.93%
1979 .........   profit          227.3        less than zero       10.08%
1980 .........   profit          237.0        less than zero       11.94%
1981 .........   profit          228.4        less than zero       13.61%
1982 .........    21.56          220.6                 9.77%       10.64%
1983 .........    33.87          231.3                14.64%       11.84%
1984 .........    48.06          253.2                18.98%       11.58%
1985 .........    44.23          390.2                11.34%        9.34%
1986 .........    55.84          797.5                 7.00%        7.60%
1987 .........    55.43        1,266.7                 4.38%        8.95%
1988 .........    11.08        1,497.7                 0.74%        9.00%
1989 .........    24.40        1,541.3                 1.58%        7.97%
1990 .........    26.65        1,637.3                 1.63%        8.24%
1991 .........   119.59        1,895.0                 6.31%        7.40%
1992 .........   108.96        2,290.4                 4.76%        7.39%

     Last year, our insurance operation again generated funds at a 
cost below that incurred by the U.S. Government on its newly-issued 
long-term bonds.  This means that in 21 years out of the 26 years 
we have been in the insurance business we have beaten the 
Government's rate, and often we have done so by a wide margin.  
(If, on average, we didn't beat the Government's rate, there would 
be no economic reason for us to be in the business.)

     In 1992, as in previous years, National Indemnity's commercial 
auto and general liability business, led by Don Wurster, and our 
homestate operation, led by Rod Eldred, made excellent 
contributions to our low cost of float.  Indeed, both of these 
operations recorded an underwriting profit last year, thereby 
generating float at a less-than-zero cost.  The bulk of our float, 
meanwhile, comes from large transactions developed by Ajit.  His 
efforts are likely to produce a further growth in float during 
1993.

     Charlie and I continue to like the insurance business, which 
we expect to be our main source of earnings for decades to come.  
The industry is huge; in certain sectors we can compete world-wide; 
and Berkshire possesses an important competitive advantage.  We 
will look for ways to expand our participation in the business, 
either indirectly as we have done through GEICO or directly as we 
did by acquiring Central States Indemnity.


Common Stock Investments

     Below we list our common stock holdings having a value of over 
$100 million.  A small portion of these investments belongs to 
subsidiaries of which Berkshire owns less than 100%.

                                                          12/31/92
   Shares   Company                                   Cost        Market
   ------   -------                                ----------   ----------
                                                       (000s omitted)
 3,000,000  Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. ............. $  517,500   $1,523,500
93,400,000  The Coca-Cola Company. ...............  1,023,920    3,911,125
16,196,700  Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 
               ("Freddie Mac") ...................    414,257      783,515	
34,250,000  GEICO Corp. ..........................     45,713    2,226,250
 4,350,000  General Dynamics Corp. ...............    312,438      450,769
24,000,000  The Gillette Company .................    600,000    1,365,000
38,335,000  Guinness PLC .........................    333,019      299,581
 1,727,765  The Washington Post Company ..........      9,731      396,954
 6,358,418  Wells Fargo & Company ................    380,983      485,624

     Leaving aside splits, the number of shares we held in these 
companies changed during 1992 in only four cases:  We added 
moderately to our holdings in Guinness and Wells Fargo, we more 
than doubled our position in Freddie Mac, and we established a new 
holding in General Dynamics.  We like to buy.

     Selling, however, is a different story.  There, our pace of 
activity resembles that forced upon a traveler who found himself 
stuck in tiny Podunk's only hotel.  With no T.V. in his room, he 
faced an evening of boredom.  But his spirits soared when he spied 
a book on the night table entitled "Things to do in Podunk."  
Opening it, he found just a single sentence: "You're doing it."

     We were lucky in our General Dynamics purchase.  I had paid 
little attention to the company until last summer, when it 
announced it would repurchase about 30% of its shares by way of a 
Dutch tender.  Seeing an arbitrage opportunity, I began buying the 
stock for Berkshire, expecting to tender our holdings for a small 
profit.  We've made the same sort of commitment perhaps a half-
dozen times in the last few years, reaping decent rates of return 
for the short periods our money has been tied up.

     But then I began studying the company and the accomplishments 
of Bill Anders in the brief time he'd been CEO.  And what I saw 
made my eyes pop:  Bill had a clearly articulated and rational 
strategy; he had been focused and imbued with a sense of urgency in 
carrying it out; and the results were truly remarkable.

     In short order, I dumped my arbitrage thoughts and decided 
that Berkshire should become a long-term investor with Bill.  We 
were helped in gaining a large position by the fact that a tender 
greatly swells the volume of trading in a stock.  In a one-month 
period, we were able to purchase 14% of the General Dynamics shares 
that remained outstanding after the tender was completed.

                    * * * * * * * * * * * *

     Our equity-investing strategy remains little changed from what 
it was fifteen years ago, when we said in the 1977 annual report:  
"We select our marketable equity securities in much the way we 
would evaluate a business for acquisition in its entirety.  We want 
the business to be one (a) that we can understand; (b) with 
favorable long-term prospects; (c) operated by honest and competent 
people; and (d) available at a very attractive price."  We have 
seen cause to make only one change in this creed: Because of both 
market conditions and our size, we now substitute "an attractive 
price" for "a very attractive price."

     But how, you will ask, does one decide what's "attractive"?  
In answering this question, most analysts feel they must choose 
between two approaches customarily thought to be in opposition:  
"value" and "growth."  Indeed, many investment professionals see 
any mixing of the two terms as a form of intellectual cross-
dressing.

     We view that as fuzzy thinking (in which, it must be 
confessed, I myself engaged some years ago).  In our opinion, the 
two approaches are joined at the hip:  Growth is always a component 
in the calculation of value, constituting a variable whose 
importance can range from negligible to enormous and whose impact 
can be negative as well as positive.

     In addition, we think the very term "value investing" is 
redundant.  What is "investing" if it is not the act of seeking 
value at least sufficient to justify the amount paid?  Consciously 
paying more for a stock than its calculated value - in the hope 
that it can soon be sold for a still-higher price - should be 
labeled speculation (which is neither illegal, immoral nor - in our 
view - financially fattening).

     Whether appropriate or not, the term "value investing" is 
widely used.  Typically, it connotes the purchase of stocks having 
attributes such as a low ratio of price to book value, a low price-
earnings ratio, or a high dividend yield.  Unfortunately, such 
characteristics, even if they appear in combination, are far from 
determinative as to whether an investor is indeed buying something 
for what it is worth and is therefore truly operating on the 
principle of obtaining value in his investments.  Correspondingly, 
opposite characteristics - a high ratio of price to book value, a 
high price-earnings ratio, and a low dividend yield - are in no way 
inconsistent with a "value" purchase.

     Similarly, business growth, per se, tells us little about 
value.  It's true that growth often has a positive impact on value, 
sometimes one of spectacular proportions.  But such an effect is 
far from certain.  For example, investors have regularly poured 
money into the domestic airline business to finance profitless (or 
worse) growth.  For these investors, it would have been far better 
if Orville had failed to get off the ground at Kitty Hawk: The more 
the industry has grown, the worse the disaster for owners.

     Growth benefits investors only when the business in point can 
invest at incremental returns that are enticing - in other words, 
only when each dollar used to finance the growth creates over a 
dollar of long-term market value.  In the case of a low-return 
business requiring incremental funds, growth hurts the investor.

     In The Theory of Investment Value, written over 50 years ago, 
John Burr Williams set forth the equation for value, which we 
condense here:  The value of any stock, bond or business today is 
determined by the cash inflows and outflows - discounted at an 
appropriate interest rate - that can be expected to occur during 
the remaining life of the asset.  Note that the formula is the same 
for stocks as for bonds.  Even so, there is an important, and 
difficult to deal with, difference between the two:  A bond has a 
coupon and maturity date that define future cash flows; but in the 
case of equities, the investment analyst must himself estimate the 
future "coupons."  Furthermore, the quality of management affects 
the bond coupon only rarely - chiefly when management is so inept 
or dishonest that payment of interest is suspended.  In contrast, 
the ability of management can dramatically affect the equity 
"coupons."

     The investment shown by the discounted-flows-of-cash 
calculation to be the cheapest is the one that the investor should 
purchase - irrespective of whether the business grows or doesn't, 
displays volatility or smoothness in its earnings, or carries a 
high price or low in relation to its current earnings and book 
value.  Moreover, though the value equation has usually shown 
equities to be cheaper than bonds, that result is not inevitable:  
When bonds are calculated to be the more attractive investment, 
they should be bought.

     Leaving the question of price aside, the best business to own 
is one that over an extended period can employ large amounts of 
incremental capital at very high rates of return.  The worst 
business to own is one that must, or will, do the opposite - that 
is, consistently employ ever-greater amounts of capital at very low 
rates of return.  Unfortunately, the first type of business is very 
hard to find:  Most high-return businesses need relatively little 
capital.  Shareholders of such a business usually will benefit if 
it pays out most of its earnings in dividends or makes significant 
stock repurchases.

     Though the mathematical calculations required to evaluate 
equities are not difficult, an analyst - even one who is 
experienced and intelligent - can easily go wrong in estimating 
future "coupons."  At Berkshire, we attempt to deal with this 
problem in two ways.  First, we try to stick to businesses we 
believe we understand.  That means they must be relatively simple 
and stable in character.  If a business is complex or subject to 
constant change, we're not smart enough to predict future cash 
flows.  Incidentally, that shortcoming doesn't bother us.  What 
counts for most people in investing is not how much they know, but 
rather how realistically they define what they don't know.  An 
investor needs to do very few things right as long as he or she 
avoids big mistakes.

     Second, and equally important, we insist on a margin of safety 
in our purchase price.  If we calculate the value of a common stock 
to be only slightly higher than its price, we're not interested in 
buying.  We believe this margin-of-safety principle, so strongly 
emphasized by Ben Graham, to be the cornerstone of investment 
success.

Fixed-Income Securities

     Below we list our largest holdings of fixed-income securities:

                                                 (000s omitted)   
                                     ------------------------------------
                                      Cost of Preferreds and
     Issuer                          Amortized Value of Bonds    Market
     ------                          ------------------------  ----------
     ACF Industries Debentures ......       $133,065(1)        $163,327
     American Express "Percs" .......        300,000            309,000(1)(2)
     Champion International Conv. Pfd.       300,000(1)         309,000(2)
     First Empire State Conv. Pfd. ..         40,000             68,000(1)(2)
     Salomon Conv. Pfd. .............        700,000(1)         756,000(2)
     USAir Conv. Pfd. ...............        358,000(1)         268,500(2)
     Washington Public Power Systems Bonds    58,768(1)          81,002

     (1) Carrying value in our financial statements
     (2) Fair value as determined by Charlie and me

     During 1992 we added to our holdings of ACF debentures, had 
some of our WPPSS bonds called, and sold our RJR Nabisco position.

     Over the years, we've done well with fixed-income investments, 
having realized from them both large capital gains (including $80 
million in 1992) and exceptional current income.  Chrysler 
Financial, Texaco, Time-Warner, WPPSS and RJR Nabisco were 
particularly good investments for us.  Meanwhile, our fixed-income 
losses have been negligible:  We've had thrills but so far no 
spills.

     Despite the success we experienced with our Gillette 
preferred, which converted to common stock in 1991, and despite our 
reasonable results with other negotiated purchases of preferreds, 
our overall performance with such purchases has been inferior to 
that we have achieved with purchases made in the secondary market. 
This is actually the result we expected.  It corresponds with our 
belief that an intelligent investor in common stocks will do better 
in the secondary market than he will do buying new issues.

     The reason has to do with the way prices are set in each 
instance.  The secondary market, which is periodically ruled by 
mass folly, is constantly setting a "clearing" price.  No matter 
how foolish that price may be, it's what counts for the holder of a 
stock or bond who needs or wishes to sell, of whom there are always 
going to be a few at any moment.  In many instances, shares worth x
in business value have sold in the market for 1/2x or less.

     The new-issue market, on the other hand, is ruled by 
controlling stockholders and corporations, who can usually select 
the timing of offerings or, if the market looks unfavorable, can 
avoid an offering altogether.  Understandably, these sellers are 
not going to offer any bargains, either by way of a public offering 
or in a negotiated transaction:  It's rare you'll find x for
1/2x here.  Indeed, in the case of common-stock offerings, selling 
shareholders are often motivated to unload only when they feel the 
market is overpaying.  (These sellers, of course, would state that 
proposition somewhat differently, averring instead that they simply 
resist selling when the market is underpaying for their goods.)

     To date, our negotiated purchases, as a group, have fulfilled 
but not exceeded the expectation we set forth in our 1989 Annual 
Report:  "Our preferred stock investments should produce returns 
modestly above those achieved by most fixed-income portfolios."  In 
truth, we would have done better if we could have put the money 
that went into our negotiated transactions into open-market 
purchases of the type we like.  But both our size and the general 
strength of the markets made that difficult to do.

     There was one other memorable line in the 1989 Annual Report: 
"We have no ability to forecast the economics of the investment 
banking business, the airline industry, or the paper industry."  At 
the time some of you may have doubted this confession of ignorance. 
Now, however, even my mother acknowledges its truth.

     In the case of our commitment to USAir, industry economics had 
soured before the ink dried on our check.  As I've previously 
mentioned, it was I who happily jumped into the pool; no one pushed 
me.  Yes, I knew the industry would be ruggedly competitive, but I 
did not expect its leaders to engage in prolonged kamikaze 
behavior.  In the last two years, airline companies have acted as 
if they are members of a competitive tontine, which they wish to 
bring to its conclusion as rapidly as possible.

     Amidst this turmoil, Seth Schofield, CEO of USAir, has done a 
truly extraordinary job in repositioning the airline.  He was 
particularly courageous in accepting a strike last fall that, had 
it been lengthy,  might well have bankrupted the company.  
Capitulating to the striking union, however, would have been 
equally disastrous:  The company was burdened with wage costs and 
work rules that were considerably more onerous than those 
encumbering its major competitors, and it was clear that over time 
any high-cost producer faced extinction.  Happily for everyone, the 
strike was settled in a few days.

     A competitively-beset business such as USAir requires far more 
managerial skill than does a business with fine economics.  
Unfortunately, though, the near-term reward for skill in the 
airline business is simply survival, not prosperity.

     In early 1993, USAir took a major step toward assuring 
survival - and eventual prosperity - by accepting British Airways' 
offer to make a substantial, but minority, investment in the 
company.  In connection with this transaction, Charlie and I were 
asked to join the USAir board.  We agreed, though this makes five 
outside board memberships for me, which is more than I believe 
advisable for an active CEO.  Even so, if an investee's management 
and directors believe it particularly important that Charlie and I 
join its board, we are glad to do so.  We expect the managers of 
our investees to work hard to increase the value of the businesses 
they run, and there are times when large owners should do their bit 
as well.

Two New Accounting Rules and a Plea for One More

     A new accounting rule having to do with deferred taxes becomes 
effective in 1993.  It undoes a dichotomy in our books that I have 
described in previous annual reports and that relates to the 
accrued taxes carried against the unrealized appreciation in our 
investment portfolio.  At yearend 1992, that appreciation amounted 
to $7.6 billion.  Against $6.4 billion of that, we carried taxes at 
the current 34% rate.  Against the remainder of $1.2 billion, we 
carried an accrual of 28%, the tax rate in effect when that portion 
of the appreciation occurred.  The new accounting rule says we must 
henceforth accrue all deferred tax at the current rate, which to us 
seems sensible.

     The new marching orders mean that in the first quarter of 1993 
we will apply a 34% rate to all of our unrealized appreciation, 
thereby increasing the tax liability and reducing net worth by $70 
million.  The new rule also will cause us to make other minor 
changes in our calculation of deferred taxes.

     Future changes in tax rates will be reflected immediately in 
the liability for deferred taxes and, correspondingly, in net 
worth.  The impact could well be substantial.  Nevertheless, what 
is important in the end is the tax rate at the time we sell 
securities, when unrealized appreciation becomes realized.

     Another major accounting change, whose implementation is 
required by January 1, 1993, mandates that businesses recognize 
their present-value liability for post-retirement health benefits. 
Though GAAP has previously required recognition of pensions to be 
paid in the future, it has illogically ignored the costs that 
companies will then have to bear for health benefits.  The new rule 
will force many companies to record a huge balance-sheet liability 
(and a consequent reduction in net worth) and also henceforth to 
recognize substantially higher costs when they are calculating 
annual profits.

     In making acquisitions, Charlie and I have tended to avoid 
companies with significant post-retirement liabilities.  As a 
result, Berkshire's present liability and future costs for post-
retirement health benefits - though we now have 22,000 employees - 
are inconsequential.  I need to admit, though, that we had a near 
miss:  In 1982 I made a huge mistake in committing to buy a company 
burdened by extraordinary post-retirement health obligations.  
Luckily, though, the transaction fell through for reasons beyond 
our control.  Reporting on this episode in the 1982 annual report, 
I said:  "If we were to introduce graphics to this report, 
illustrating favorable business developments of the past year, two 
blank pages depicting this blown deal would be the appropriate 
centerfold."  Even so, I wasn't expecting things to get as bad as 
they did.  Another buyer appeared, the business soon went bankrupt 
and was shut down, and thousands of workers found those bountiful 
health-care promises to be largely worthless.

     In recent decades, no CEO would have dreamed of going to his 
board with the proposition that his company become an insurer of 
uncapped post-retirement health benefits that other corporations 
chose to install.  A CEO didn't need to be a medical expert to know 
that lengthening life expectancies and soaring health costs would 
guarantee an insurer a financial battering from such a business.  
Nevertheless, many a manager blithely committed his own company to 
a self-insurance plan embodying precisely the same promises - and 
thereby doomed his shareholders to suffer the inevitable 
consequences.  In health-care, open-ended promises have created 
open-ended liabilities that in a few cases loom so large as to 
threaten the global competitiveness of major American industries.

     I believe part of the reason for this reckless behavior was 
that accounting rules did not, for so long, require the booking of 
post-retirement health costs as they were incurred.  Instead, the 
rules allowed cash-basis accounting, which vastly understated the 
liabilities that were building up.  In effect, the attitude of both 
managements and their accountants toward these liabilities was 
"out-of-sight, out-of-mind."  Ironically, some of these same 
managers would be quick to criticize Congress for employing "cash-
basis" thinking in respect to Social Security promises or other 
programs creating future liabilities of size.

     Managers thinking about accounting issues should never forget 
one of Abraham Lincoln's favorite riddles:  "How many legs does a 
dog have if you call his tail a leg?"  The answer:  "Four, because 
calling a tail a leg does not make it a leg."  It behooves managers 
to remember that Abe's right even if an auditor is willing to 
certify that the tail is a leg.

                   * * * * * * * * * * * *

     The most egregious case of let's-not-face-up-to-reality 
behavior by executives and accountants has occurred in the world of 
stock options.  In Berkshire's 1985 annual report, I laid out my 
opinions about the use and misuse of options.  But even when 
options are structured properly, they are accounted for in ways 
that make no sense.  The lack of logic is not accidental:  For 
decades, much of the business world has waged war against 
accounting rulemakers, trying to keep the costs of stock options 
from being reflected in the profits of the corporations that issue 
them.

     Typically, executives have argued that options are hard to 
value and that therefore their costs should be ignored.  At other 
times managers have said that assigning a cost to options would 
injure small start-up businesses.  Sometimes they have even 
solemnly declared that "out-of-the-money" options (those with an 
exercise price equal to or above the current market price) have no 
value when they are issued.

     Oddly, the Council of Institutional Investors has chimed in 
with a variation on that theme, opining that options should not be 
viewed as a cost because they "aren't dollars out of a company's 
coffers."  I see this line of reasoning as offering exciting 
possibilities to American corporations for instantly improving 
their reported profits.  For example, they could eliminate the cost 
of insurance by paying for it with options.  So if you're a CEO and 
subscribe to this "no cash-no cost" theory of accounting, I'll make 
you an offer you can't refuse:  Give us a call at Berkshire and we 
will happily sell you insurance in exchange for a bundle of long-
term options on your company's stock.

     Shareholders should understand that companies incur costs when 
they deliver something of value to another party and not just when 
cash changes hands.  Moreover, it is both silly and cynical to say 
that an important item of cost should not be recognized simply 
because it can't be quantified with pinpoint precision.  Right now, 
accounting abounds with imprecision.  After all, no manager or 
auditor knows how long a 747 is going to last, which means he also 
does not know what the yearly depreciation charge for the plane 
should be.  No one knows with any certainty what a bank's annual 
loan loss charge ought to be.  And the estimates of losses that 
property-casualty companies make are notoriously inaccurate.

     Does this mean that these important items of cost should be 
ignored simply because they can't be quantified with absolute 
accuracy?  Of course not.  Rather, these costs should be estimated 
by honest and experienced people and then recorded.  When you get 
right down to it, what other item of major but hard-to-precisely-
calculate cost - other, that is, than stock options - does the 
accounting profession say should be ignored in the calculation of 
earnings?

     Moreover, options are just not that difficult to value.  
Admittedly, the difficulty is increased by the fact that the 
options given to executives are restricted in various ways.  These 
restrictions affect value.  They do not, however, eliminate it.  In 
fact, since I'm in the mood for offers, I'll make one to any 
executive who is granted a restricted option, even though it may be 
out of the money:  On the day of issue, Berkshire will pay him or 
her a substantial sum for the right to any future gain he or she 
realizes on the option.  So if you find a CEO who says his newly-
issued options have little or no value, tell him to try us out.  In 
truth, we have far more confidence in our ability to determine an 
appropriate price to pay for an option than we have in our ability 
to determine the proper depreciation rate for our corporate jet.

     It seems to me that the realities of stock options can be 
summarized quite simply:  If options aren't a form of compensation, 
what are they?  If compensation isn't an expense, what is it?  And, 
if expenses shouldn't go into the calculation of earnings, where in 
the world should they go?

     The accounting profession and the SEC should be shamed by the 
fact that they have long let themselves be muscled by business 
executives on the option-accounting issue.  Additionally, the 
lobbying that executives engage in may have an unfortunate by-
product:  In my opinion, the business elite risks losing its 
credibility on issues of significance to society - about which it 
may have much of value to say - when it advocates the incredible on 
issues of significance to itself.

Miscellaneous

     We have two pieces of regrettable news this year.  First, 
Gladys Kaiser, my friend and assistant for twenty-five years, will 
give up the latter post after the 1993 annual meeting, though she 
will certainly remain my friend forever.  Gladys and I have been a 
team, and though I knew her retirement was coming, it is still a 
jolt.

     Secondly, in September, Verne McKenzie relinquished his role 
as Chief Financial Officer after a 30-year association with me that 
began when he was the outside auditor of Buffett Partnership, Ltd. 
Verne is staying on as a consultant, and though that job 
description is often a euphemism, in this case it has real meaning. 
I expect Verne to continue to fill an important role at Berkshire 
but to do so at his own pace.  Marc Hamburg, Verne's understudy for 
five years, has succeeded him as Chief Financial Officer.

     I recall that one woman, upon being asked to describe the 
perfect spouse, specified an archeologist: "The older I get," she 
said, "the more he'll be interested in me."  She would have liked 
my tastes:  I treasure those extraordinary Berkshire managers who 
are working well past normal retirement age and who concomitantly 
are achieving results much superior to those of their younger 
competitors.  While I understand and empathize with the decision of 
Verne and Gladys to retire when the calendar says it's time, theirs 
is not a step I wish to encourage.  It's hard to teach a new dog 
old tricks.

                  * * * * * * * * * * * * 

     I am a moderate in my views about retirement compared to Rose 
Blumkin, better known as Mrs. B.  At 99, she continues to work 
seven days a week.  And about her, I have some particularly good 
news.

     You will remember that after her family sold 80% of Nebraska 
Furniture Mart (NFM) to Berkshire in 1983, Mrs. B continued to be 
Chairman and run the carpet operation.  In 1989, however, she left 
because of a managerial disagreement and opened up her own 
operation next door in a large building that she had owned for 
several years.  In her new business, she ran the carpet section but 
leased out other home-furnishings departments.

     At the end of last year, Mrs. B decided to sell her building 
and land to NFM.  She'll continue, however, to run her carpet 
business at its current location (no sense slowing down just when 
you're hitting full stride).  NFM will set up shop alongside her, 
in that same building, thereby making a major addition to its 
furniture business.

     I am delighted that Mrs. B has again linked up with us.  Her 
business story has no parallel and I have always been a fan of 
hers, whether she was a partner or a competitor.  But believe me, 
partner is better.

     This time around, Mrs. B graciously offered to sign a non-
compete agreement - and I, having been incautious on this point 
when she was 89, snapped at the deal.  Mrs. B belongs in the 
Guinness Book of World Records on many counts.  Signing a non-
compete at 99 merely adds one more.

                   * * * * * * * * * * * *

     Ralph Schey, CEO of Scott Fetzer and a manager who I hope is 
with us at 99 also, hit a grand slam last year when that company 
earned a record $110 million pre-tax.  What's even more impressive 
is that Scott Fetzer achieved such earnings while employing only 
$116 million of equity capital.  This extraordinary result is not 
the product of leverage:  The company uses only minor amounts of 
borrowed money (except for the debt it employs - appropriately - in 
its finance subsidiary).

     Scott Fetzer now operates with a significantly smaller 
investment in both inventory and fixed assets than it had when we 
bought it in 1986.  This means the company has been able to 
distribute more than 100% of its earnings to Berkshire during our 
seven years of ownership while concurrently increasing its earnings 
stream - which was excellent to begin with - by a lot.  Ralph just 
keeps on outdoing himself, and Berkshire shareholders owe him a 
great deal.

                   * * * * * * * * * * * *

     Those readers with particularly sharp eyes will note that our 
corporate expense fell from $5.6 million in 1991 to $4.2 million in 
1992.  Perhaps you will think that I have sold our corporate jet, 
The Indefensible.  Forget it!  I find the thought of retiring the 
plane even more revolting than the thought of retiring the 
Chairman.  (In this matter I've demonstrated uncharacteristic 
flexibility:  For years I argued passionately against corporate 
jets.  But finally my dogma was run over by my karma.)

     Our reduction in corporate overhead actually came about 
because those expenses were especially high in 1991, when we 
incurred a one-time environmental charge relating to alleged pre-
1970 actions of our textile operation.  Now that things are back to 
normal, our after-tax overhead costs are under 1% of our reported 
operating earnings and less than 1/2 of 1% of our look-through 
earnings.  We have no legal, personnel, public relations, investor 
relations, or strategic planning departments.  In turn this means 
we don't need support personnel such as guards, drivers, 
messengers, etc.  Finally, except for Verne, we employ no 
consultants.  Professor Parkinson would like our operation - though 
Charlie, I must say, still finds it outrageously fat.

     At some companies, corporate expense runs 10% or more of 
operating earnings.  The tithing that operations thus makes to 
headquarters not only hurts earnings, but more importantly slashes 
capital values.  If the business that spends 10% on headquarters' 
costs achieves earnings at its operating levels identical to those 
achieved by the business that incurs costs of only 1%, shareholders 
of the first enterprise suffer a 9% loss in the value of their 
holdings simply because of corporate overhead.  Charlie and I have 
observed no correlation between high corporate costs and good 
corporate performance.  In fact, we see the simpler, low-cost 
operation as more likely to operate effectively than its 
bureaucratic brethren.  We're admirers of the Wal-Mart, Nucor, 
Dover, GEICO, Golden West Financial and Price Co. models.

                   * * * * * * * * * * * *

     Late last year Berkshire's stock price crossed $10,000.  
Several shareholders have mentioned to me that the high price 
causes them problems:  They like to give shares away each year and 
find themselves impeded by the tax rule that draws a distinction 
between annual gifts of $10,000 or under to a single individual and 
those above $10,000.  That is, those gifts no greater than $10,000 
are completely tax-free; those above $10,000 require the donor to 
use up a portion of his or her lifetime exemption from gift and 
estate taxes, or, if that exemption has been exhausted, to pay gift 
taxes.

     I can suggest three ways to address this problem.  The first 
would be useful to a married shareholder, who can give up to 
$20,000 annually to a single recipient, as long as the donor files 
a gift tax return containing his or her spouse's written consent to 
gifts made during the year.

     Secondly, a shareholder, married or not, can make a bargain 
sale.  Imagine, for example, that Berkshire is selling for $12,000 
and that one wishes to make only a $10,000 gift.  In that case, 
sell the stock to the giftee for $2,000.  (Caution:  You will be 
taxed on the amount, if any, by which the sales price to your 
giftee exceeds your tax basis.)

     Finally, you can establish a partnership with people to whom 
you are making gifts, fund it with Berkshire shares, and simply 
give percentage interests in the partnership away each year.  These 
interests can be for any value that you select.  If the value is 
$10,000 or less, the gift will be tax-free.

     We issue the customary warning:  Consult with your own tax 
advisor before taking action on any of the more esoteric methods of 
gift-making.

     We hold to the view about stock splits that we set forth in 
the 1983 Annual Report.  Overall, we believe our owner-related 
policies - including the no-split policy - have helped us assemble 
a body of shareholders that is the best associated with any widely-
held American corporation.  Our shareholders think and behave like 
rational long-term owners and view the business much as Charlie and 
I do.  Consequently, our stock consistently trades in a price range 
that is sensibly related to intrinsic value.

     Additionally, we believe that our shares turn over far less 
actively than do the shares of any other widely-held company.  The 
frictional costs of trading - which act as a major "tax" on the 
owners of many companies - are virtually non-existent at Berkshire. 
(The market-making skills of Jim Maguire, our New York Stock 
Exchange specialist, definitely help to keep these costs low.)  
Obviously a split would not change this situation dramatically.  
Nonetheless, there is no way that our shareholder group would be 
upgraded by the new shareholders enticed by a split.  Instead we 
believe that modest degradation would occur.

                   * * * * * * * * * * * *

     As I mentioned earlier, on December 16th we called our zero-
coupon, convertible debentures for payment on January 4, 1993.  
These obligations bore interest at 5 1/2%, a low cost for funds 
when they were issued in 1989, but an unattractive rate for us at 
the time of call.

     The debentures could have been redeemed at the option of the 
holder in September 1994, and 5 1/2% money available for no longer 
than that is not now of interest to us.  Furthermore, Berkshire 
shareholders are disadvantaged by having a conversion option 
outstanding.  At the time we issued the debentures, this 
disadvantage was offset by the attractive interest rate they 
carried; by late 1992, it was not.

     In general, we continue to have an aversion to debt, 
particularly the short-term kind.  But we are willing to incur 
modest amounts of debt when it is both properly structured and of 
significant benefit to shareholders.


                    * * * * * * * * * * * *


     About 97% of all eligible shares participated in Berkshire's 
1992 shareholder-designated contributions program.  Contributions 
made through the program were $7.6 million, and 2,810 charities 
were recipients.  I'm considering increasing these contributions in 
the future at a rate greater than the increase in Berkshire's book 
value, and I would be glad to hear from you as to your thinking 
about this idea.

     We suggest that new shareholders read the description of our 
shareholder-designated contributions program that appears on pages 
48-49. To participate in future programs, you must make sure your 
shares are registered in the name of the actual owner, not in the 
nominee name of a broker, bank or depository.  Shares not so 
registered on August 31, 1993 will be ineligible for the 1993 
program.

     In addition to the shareholder-designated contributions that 
Berkshire distributes, managers of our operating businesses make 
contributions, including merchandise, averaging about $2.0 million 
annually.  These contributions support local charities, such as The 
United Way, and produce roughly commensurate benefits for our 
businesses.

     However, neither our operating managers nor officers of the 
parent company use Berkshire funds to make contributions to broad 
national programs or charitable activities of special personal 
interest to them, except to the extent they do so as shareholders. 
If your employees, including your CEO, wish to give to their alma 
maters or other institutions to which they feel a personal 
attachment, we believe they should use their own money, not yours.


                    * * * * * * * * * * * *


     This year the Annual Meeting will be held at the Orpheum 
Theater in downtown Omaha at 9:30 a.m. on Monday, April 26, 1993.  
A record 1,700 people turned up for the meeting last year, but that 
number still leaves plenty of room at the Orpheum.

     We recommend that you get your hotel reservations early at one 
of these hotels: (1) The Radisson-Redick Tower, a small (88 rooms) 
but nice hotel across the street from the Orpheum; (2) the much 
larger Red Lion Hotel, located about a five-minute walk from the 
Orpheum; or (3) the Marriott, located in West Omaha about 100 yards 
from Borsheim's, which is a twenty minute drive from downtown. We 
will have buses at the Marriott that will leave at 8:30 and 8:45 
for the meeting and return after it ends.

     Charlie and I always enjoy the meeting, and we hope you can 
make it. The quality of our shareholders is reflected in the 
quality of the questions we get: We have never attended an annual 
meeting anywhere that features such a consistently high level of 
intelligent, owner-related questions.

     An attachment to our proxy material explains how you can 
obtain the card you will need for admission to the meeting. With 
the admission card, we will enclose information about parking 
facilities located near the Orpheum. If you are driving, come a 
little early. Nearby lots fill up quickly and you may have to walk 
a few blocks.

     As usual, we will have buses to take you to Nebraska Furniture 
Mart and Borsheim's after the meeting and to take you from there to 
downtown hotels or the airport later. I hope that you will allow 
plenty of time to fully explore the attractions of both stores. 
Those of you arriving early can visit the Furniture Mart any day of 
the week; it is open from 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. on Saturdays and 
from noon to 5:30 p.m. on Sundays. While there, stop at the See's 
Candy Cart and find out for yourself why Charlie and I are a good 
bit wider than we were back in 1972 when we bought See's.

     Borsheim's normally is closed on Sunday but will be open for 
shareholders and their guests from noon to 6 p.m. on Sunday, April 
25.  Charlie and I will be in attendance, sporting our jeweler's 
loupes, and ready to give advice about gems to anyone foolish 
enough to listen.  Also available will be plenty of Cherry Cokes, 
See's candies, and other lesser goodies.  I hope you will join us.



                                          Warren E. Buffett
March 1, 1993                             Chairman of the Board








Chairman's Letter - 1993



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.



To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:


     Our per-share book value increased 14.3% during 1993.  Over 
the last 29 years (that is, since present management took over) 
book value has grown from $19 to $8,854, or at a rate of 23.3% 
compounded annually.

     During the year, Berkshire's net worth increased by $1.5 
billion, a figure affected by two negative and two positive non-
operating items.  For the sake of completeness, I'll explain them 
here.  If you aren't thrilled by accounting, however, feel free 
to fast-forward through this discussion:

     1.     The first negative was produced by a change in 
            Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) 
            having to do with the taxes we accrue against 
            unrealized appreciation in the securities we 
            carry at market value.  The old rule said that 
            the tax rate used should be the one in effect 
            when the appreciation took place.  Therefore, 
            at the end of 1992, we were using a rate of 34% 
            on the $6.4 billion of gains generated after 
            1986 and 28% on the $1.2 billion of gains 
            generated before that.  The new rule stipulates 
            that the current tax rate should be applied to 
            all gains.  The rate in the first quarter of 
            1993, when this rule went into effect, was 34%. 
            Applying that rate to our pre-1987 gains 
            reduced net worth by $70 million.

     2.     The second negative, related to the first, came 
            about because the corporate tax rate was raised 
            in the third quarter of 1993 to 35%.  This 
            change required us to make an additional charge 
            of 1% against all of our unrealized gains, and 
            that charge penalized net worth by $75 million. 
            Oddly, GAAP required both this charge and the 
            one described above to be deducted from the 
            earnings we report, even though the unrealized 
            appreciation that gave rise to the charges was 
            never included in earnings, but rather was 
            credited directly to net worth.

     3.     Another 1993 change in GAAP affects the value 
            at which we carry the securities that we own.  
            In recent years, both the common stocks and 
            certain common-equivalent securities held by 
            our insurance companies have been valued at 
            market, whereas equities held by our non-
            insurance subsidiaries or by the parent company 
            were carried at their aggregate cost or market, 
            whichever was lower.  Now GAAP says that all 
            common stocks should be carried at market, a 
            rule we began following in the fourth quarter 
            of 1993.  This change produced a gain in 
            Berkshire's reported net worth of about $172 
            million.

     4.     Finally, we issued some stock last year.  In a 
            transaction described in last year's Annual 
            Report, we issued 3,944 shares in early 
            January, 1993 upon the conversion of $46 
            million convertible debentures that we had 
            called for redemption.  Additionally, we issued 
            25,203 shares when we acquired Dexter Shoe, a 
            purchase discussed later in this report.  The 
            overall result was that our shares outstanding 
            increased by 29,147 and our net worth by about 
            $478 million.  Per-share book value also grew, 
            because the shares issued in these transactions 
            carried a price above their book value.

     Of course, it's per-share intrinsic value, not book value, 
that counts.  Book value is an accounting term that measures the 
capital, including retained earnings, that has been put into a 
business.  Intrinsic value is a present-value estimate of the 
cash that can be taken out of a business during its remaining 
life.  At most companies, the two values are unrelated.  
Berkshire, however, is an exception:  Our book value, though 
significantly below our intrinsic value, serves as a useful 
device for tracking that key figure.  In 1993, each measure grew 
by roughly 14%, advances that I would call satisfactory but 
unexciting.

     These gains, however, were outstripped by a much larger gain 
- 39% - in Berkshire's market price.  Over time, of course, 
market price and intrinsic value will arrive at about the same 
destination.  But in the short run the two often diverge in a 
major way, a phenomenon I've discussed in the past.  Two years 
ago, Coca-Cola and Gillette, both large holdings of ours, enjoyed 
market price increases that dramatically outpaced their earnings 
gains.  In the 1991 Annual Report, I said that the stocks of 
these companies could not continuously overperform their 
businesses.

     From 1991 to 1993, Coke and Gillette increased their annual 
operating earnings per share by 38% and 37% respectively, but 
their market prices moved up only 11% and 6%.  In other words, 
the companies overperformed their stocks, a result that no doubt 
partly reflects Wall Street's new apprehension about brand names. 
Whatever the reason, what will count over time is the earnings 
performance of these companies.  If they prosper, Berkshire will 
also prosper, though not in a lock-step manner.

     Let me add a lesson from history:  Coke went public in 1919 
at $40 per share.  By the end of 1920 the market, coldly 
reevaluating Coke's future prospects, had battered the stock down 
by more than 50%, to $19.50.  At yearend 1993, that single share, 
with dividends reinvested, was worth more than $2.1 million.  As 
Ben Graham said:  "In the short-run, the market is a voting 
machine - reflecting a voter-registration test that requires only 
money, not intelligence or emotional stability - but in the long-
run, the market is a weighing machine."

     So how should Berkshire's over-performance in the market 
last year be viewed?  Clearly, Berkshire was selling at a higher 
percentage of intrinsic value at the end of 1993 than was the 
case at the beginning of the year.  On the other hand, in a world 
of 6% or 7% long-term interest rates, Berkshire's market price 
was not inappropriate if - and you should understand that this is 
a huge if - Charlie Munger, Berkshire's Vice Chairman, and I can 
attain our long-standing goal of increasing Berkshire's per-share 
intrinsic value at an average annual rate of 15%.  We have not 
retreated from this goal.  But we again emphasize, as we have for 
many years, that the growth in our capital base makes 15% an 
ever-more difficult target to hit.

     What we have going for us is a growing collection of good-
sized operating businesses that possess economic characteristics 
ranging from good to terrific, run by managers whose performance 
ranges from terrific to terrific.  You need have no worries about 
this group.

     The capital-allocation work that Charlie and I do at the 
parent company, using the funds that our managers deliver to us, 
has a less certain outcome:  It is not easy to find new 
businesses and managers comparable to those we have.  Despite 
that difficulty, Charlie and I relish the search, and we are 
happy to report an important success in 1993.

Dexter Shoe

     What we did last year was build on our 1991 purchase of H. 
H. Brown, a superbly-run manufacturer of work shoes, boots and 
other footwear.  Brown has been a real winner:  Though we had 
high hopes to begin with, these expectations have been 
considerably exceeded thanks to Frank Rooney, Jim Issler and the 
talented managers who work with them.  Because of our confidence 
in Frank's team, we next acquired Lowell Shoe, at the end of 
1992.  Lowell was a long-established manufacturer of women's and 
nurses' shoes, but its business needed some fixing.  Again, 
results have surpassed our expectations.  So we promptly jumped 
at the chance last year to acquire Dexter Shoe of Dexter, Maine, 
which manufactures popular-priced men's and women's shoes.  
Dexter, I can assure you, needs no fixing:  It is one of the 
best-managed companies Charlie and I have seen in our business 
lifetimes.

     Harold Alfond, who started working in a shoe factory at 25 
cents an hour when he was 20, founded Dexter in 1956 with $10,000 
of capital.  He was joined in 1958 by Peter Lunder, his nephew.  
The two of them have since built a business that now produces over 
7.5 million pairs of shoes annually, most of them made in Maine 
and the balance in Puerto Rico.  As you probably know, the 
domestic shoe industry is generally thought to be unable to 
compete with imports from low-wage countries.  But someone forgot 
to tell this to the ingenious managements of Dexter and H. H. 
Brown and to their skilled labor forces, which together make the 
U.S. plants of both companies highly competitive against all 
comers.

     Dexter's business includes 77 retail outlets, located 
primarily in the Northeast.  The company is also a major 
manufacturer of golf shoes, producing about 15% of U.S. output.  
Its bread and butter, though, is the manufacture of traditional 
shoes for traditional retailers, a job at which it excels:  Last 
year both Nordstrom and J.C. Penney bestowed special awards upon 
Dexter for its performance as a supplier during 1992.

     Our 1993 results include Dexter only from our date of 
merger, November 7th.  In 1994, we expect Berkshire's shoe 
operations to have more than $550 million in sales, and we would 
not be surprised if the combined pre-tax earnings of these 
businesses topped $85 million.  Five years ago we had no thought 
of getting into shoes.  Now we have 7,200 employees in that 
industry, and I sing "There's No Business Like Shoe Business" as 
I drive to work.  So much for strategic plans.

     At Berkshire, we have no view of the future that dictates 
what businesses or industries we will enter.  Indeed, we think 
it's usually poison for a corporate giant's shareholders if it 
embarks upon new ventures pursuant to some grand vision.  We 
prefer instead to focus on the economic characteristics of 
businesses that we wish to own and the personal characteristics 
of managers with whom we wish to associate - and then to hope we 
get lucky in finding the two in combination.  At Dexter, we did.

                   * * * * * * * * * * * *

     And now we pause for a short commercial:  Though they owned 
a business jewel, we believe that Harold and Peter (who were not 
interested in cash) made a sound decision in exchanging their 
Dexter stock for shares of Berkshire.  What they did, in effect, 
was trade a 100% interest in a single terrific business for a 
smaller interest in a large group of terrific businesses.  They 
incurred no tax on this exchange and now own a security that can 
be easily used for charitable or personal gifts, or that can be 
converted to cash in amounts, and at times, of their own 
choosing.  Should members of their families desire to, they can 
pursue varying financial paths without running into the 
complications that often arise when assets are concentrated in a 
private business.

     For tax and other reasons, private companies also often find 
it difficult to diversify outside their industries.  Berkshire, 
in contrast, can diversify with ease.  So in shifting their 
ownership to Berkshire, Dexter's shareholders solved a 
reinvestment problem.  Moreover, though Harold and Peter now have 
non-controlling shares in Berkshire, rather than controlling 
shares in Dexter, they know they will be treated as partners and 
that we will follow owner-oriented practices.  If they elect to 
retain their Berkshire shares, their investment result from the 
merger date forward will exactly parallel my own result.  Since I 
have a huge percentage of my net worth committed for life to 
Berkshire shares - and since the company will issue me neither 
restricted shares nor stock options - my gain-loss equation will 
always match that of all other owners.

     Additionally, Harold and Peter know that at Berkshire we can 
keep our promises:  There will be no changes of control or 
culture at Berkshire for many decades to come.  Finally, and of 
paramount importance, Harold and Peter can be sure that they will 
get to run their business - an activity they dearly love - 
exactly as they did before the merger.  At Berkshire, we do not 
tell .400 hitters how to swing.

     What made sense for Harold and Peter probably makes sense 
for a few other owners of large private businesses.  So, if you 
have a business that might fit, let me hear from you.  Our 
acquisition criteria are set forth in the appendix on page 22.

Sources of Reported Earnings

     The table below shows the major sources of Berkshire's 
reported earnings.  In this presentation, amortization of 
Goodwill and other major purchase-price accounting adjustments 
are not charged against the specific businesses to which they 
apply, but are instead aggregated and shown separately.  This 
procedure lets you view the earnings of our businesses as they 
would have been reported had we not purchased them.  I've 
explained in past reports why this form of presentation seems to 
us to be more useful to investors and managers than one utilizing 
GAAP, which requires purchase-price adjustments to be made on a 
business-by-business basis.  The total net earnings we show in 
the table are, of course, identical to the GAAP total in our 
audited financial statements.

                                               (000s omitted)               
                                 ------------------------------------------
                                                          Berkshire's Share  
                                                           of Net Earnings  
                                                          (after taxes and  
                                    Pre-Tax Earnings     minority interests)  
                                 ----------------------  ------------------
                                    1993        1992       1993       1992 
                                 ----------  ----------  --------  --------
 
Operating Earnings:
  Insurance Group:
    Underwriting ...............   $ 30,876  $(108,961)  $ 20,156  $(71,141)	
    Net Investment Income ......    375,946     355,067   321,321   305,763 
  H. H. Brown, Lowell, 
      and Dexter ...............     44,025*     27,883    28,829    17,340 	
  Buffalo News .................     50,962      47,863    29,696    28,163 
  Commercial & Consumer Finance      22,695      19,836    14,161    12,664 
  Fechheimer ...................     13,442      13,698     6,931     7,267 
  Kirby ........................     39,147      35,653    25,056    22,795 
  Nebraska Furniture Mart ......     21,540      17,110    10,398     8,072 
  Scott Fetzer Manufacturing Group   38,196      31,954    23,809    19,883 	
  See's Candies ................     41,150      42,357    24,367    25,501 
  World Book ...................     19,915      29,044    13,537    19,503 
  Purchase-Price Accounting & 
      Goodwill Charges .........    (17,033)    (12,087)  (13,996)  (13,070)	
  Interest Expense** ...........    (56,545)    (98,643)  (35,614)  (62,899)
  Shareholder-Designated 
      Contributions ............     (9,448)     (7,634)   (5,994)   (4,913)	
  Other ........................     28,428      67,540    15,094    32,798 
                                 ----------  ----------  --------  --------  
Operating Earnings .............    643,296     460,680   477,751   347,726 
Sales of Securities ............    546,422      89,937   356,702    59,559 
Tax Accruals Caused by 
   New Accounting Rules ........      ---         ---    (146,332)    ---   
                                 ----------  ----------  --------  --------
Total Earnings - All Entities .. $1,189,718   $ 550,617  $688,121  $407,285 

* Includes Dexter's earnings only from the date it was acquired, 
  November 7, 1993.

**Excludes interest expense of Commercial and Consumer Finance 
  businesses.  In 1992 includes $22.5 million of premiums paid on 
  the early redemption of debt.

     A large amount of information about these businesses is given 
on pages 38-49, where you will also find our segment earnings 
reported on a GAAP basis.  In addition, on pages 52-59, we have 
rearranged Berkshire's financial data into four segments on a non-
GAAP basis, a presentation that corresponds to the way Charlie and 
I think about the company.  Our intent is to supply you with the 
financial information that we would wish you to give us if our 
positions were reversed.

"Look-Through" Earnings

     We've previously discussed look-through earnings, which we 
believe more accurately portray the earnings of Berkshire than does 
our GAAP result.  As we calculate them, look-through earnings 
consist of: (1) the operating earnings reported in the previous 
section, plus; (2) the retained operating earnings of major 
investees that, under GAAP accounting, are not reflected in our 
profits, less; (3) an allowance for the tax that would be paid by 
Berkshire if these retained earnings of investees had instead been 
distributed to us.  The "operating earnings" of which we speak here 
exclude capital gains, special accounting items and major 
restructuring charges.

     Over time, our look-through earnings need to increase at about 
15% annually if our intrinsic value is to grow at that rate.  Last 
year, I explained that we had to increase these earnings to about 
$1.8 billion in the year 2000, were we to meet the 15% goal.  
Because we issued additional shares in 1993, the amount needed has 
risen to about $1.85 billion.

     That is a tough goal, but one that we expect you to hold us 
to.  In the past, we've criticized the managerial practice of 
shooting the arrow of performance and then painting the target, 
centering it on whatever point the arrow happened to hit.  We will 
instead risk embarrassment by painting first and shooting later.

     If we are to hit the bull's-eye, we will need markets that 
allow the purchase of businesses and securities on sensible terms. 
Right now, markets are difficult, but they can - and will - change 
in unexpected ways and at unexpected times.  In the meantime, we'll 
try to resist the temptation to do something marginal simply 
because we are long on cash.  There's no use running if you're on 
the wrong road.

     The following table shows how we calculate look-through 
earnings, though I warn you that the figures are necessarily very 
rough.  (The dividends paid to us by these investees have been 
included in the operating earnings itemized on page 8, mostly 
under "Insurance Group:  Net Investment Income.") 

                                                         Berkshire's Share 
                                                          of Undistributed 
                              Berkshire's Approximate    Operating Earnings
Berkshire's Major Investees    Ownership at Yearend        (in millions) 
---------------------------   -----------------------   --------------------
   
                                  1993      1992           1993      1992
                                 ------    ------         ------    ------   
Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. .....    13.0%     18.2%         $ 83(2)   $ 70
The Coca-Cola Company ........     7.2%      7.1%           94        82
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.   6.8%(1)   8.2%(1)        41(2)     29(2)
GEICO Corp. ..................    48.4%     48.1%           76(3)     34(3)
General Dynamics Corp. .......    13.9%     14.1%           25        11(2)
The Gillette Company .........    10.9%     10.9%           44        38
Guinness PLC .................     1.9%      2.0%            8         7
The Washington Post Company ..    14.8%     14.6%           15        11
Wells Fargo & Company ........    12.2%     11.5%           53(2)     16(2)

Berkshire's share of undistributed 
   earnings of major investees                            $439      $298
Hypothetical tax on these undistributed 
   investee earnings(4)                                    (61)      (42)
Reported operating earnings of Berkshire                   478       348 
      Total look-through earnings of Berkshire            $856      $604 

     (1) Does not include shares allocable to the minority interest 
         at Wesco
     (2) Calculated on average ownership for the year
     (3) Excludes realized capital gains, which have been both 
         recurring and significant
     (4) The tax rate used is 14%, which is the rate Berkshire pays 
         on the dividends it receives

     We have told you that we expect the undistributed, 
hypothetically-taxed earnings of our investees to produce at least 
equivalent gains in Berkshire's intrinsic value.  To date, we have 
far exceeded that expectation.  For example, in 1986 we bought 
three million shares of Capital Cities/ABC for $172.50 per share 
and late last year sold one-third of that holding for $630 per 
share.  After paying 35% capital gains taxes, we realized a $297 
million profit from the sale.  In contrast, during the eight years 
we held these shares, the retained earnings of Cap Cities 
attributable to them - hypothetically taxed at a lower 14% in 
accordance with our look-through method - were only $152 million.  
In other words, we paid a much larger tax bill than our look-
through presentations to you have assumed and nonetheless realized 
a gain that far exceeded the undistributed earnings allocable to 
these shares.

     We expect such pleasant outcomes to recur often in the future 
and therefore believe our look-through earnings to be a 
conservative representation of Berkshire's true economic earnings.

Taxes

     As our Cap Cities sale emphasizes, Berkshire is a substantial 
payer of federal income taxes.  In aggregate, we will pay 1993 
federal income taxes of $390 million, about $200 million of that 
attributable to operating earnings and $190 million to realized 
capital gains.  Furthermore, our share of the 1993 federal and 
foreign income taxes paid by our investees is well over $400 
million, a figure you don't see on our financial statements but 
that is nonetheless real.  Directly and indirectly, Berkshire's 
1993 federal income tax payments will be about 1/2 of 1% of the total 
paid last year by all American corporations.

     Speaking for our own shares, Charlie and I have absolutely no 
complaint about these taxes.  We know we work in a market-based 
economy that rewards our efforts far more bountifully than it does 
the efforts of others whose output is of equal or greater benefit 
to society.  Taxation should, and does, partially redress this 
inequity.  But we still remain extraordinarily well-treated.

     Berkshire and its shareholders, in combination, would pay a 
much smaller tax if Berkshire operated as a partnership or "S" 
corporation, two structures often used for business activities.  
For a variety of reasons, that's not feasible for Berkshire to do. 
However, the penalty our corporate form imposes is mitigated - 
though far from eliminated - by our strategy of investing for the 
long term.  Charlie and I would follow a buy-and-hold policy even 
if we ran a tax-exempt institution.  We think it the soundest way 
to invest, and it also goes down the grain of our personalities.  A 
third reason to favor this policy, however, is the fact that taxes 
are due only when gains are realized.

     Through my favorite comic strip, Li'l Abner, I got a chance 
during my youth to see the benefits of delayed taxes, though I 
missed the lesson at the time.  Making his readers feel superior, 
Li'l Abner bungled happily, but moronically, through life in 
Dogpatch.  At one point he became infatuated with a New York 
temptress, Appassionatta Van Climax, but despaired of marrying her 
because he had only a single silver dollar and she was interested 
solely in millionaires.  Dejected, Abner took his problem to Old 
Man Mose, the font of all knowledge in Dogpatch.  Said the sage:  
Double your money 20 times and Appassionatta will be yours (1, 2, 
4, 8 . . . . 1,048,576).

     My last memory of the strip is Abner entering a roadhouse, 
dropping his dollar into a slot machine, and hitting a jackpot that 
spilled money all over the floor.  Meticulously following Mose's 
advice, Abner picked up two dollars and went off to find his next 
double.  Whereupon I dumped Abner and began reading Ben Graham.

     Mose clearly was overrated as a guru:  Besides failing to 
anticipate Abner's slavish obedience to instructions, he also 
forgot about taxes.  Had Abner been subject, say, to the 35% 
federal tax rate that Berkshire pays, and had he managed one double 
annually, he would after 20 years only have accumulated $22,370.  
Indeed, had he kept on both getting his annual doubles and paying a 
35% tax on each, he would have needed 7 1/2 years more to reach the 
$1 million required to win Appassionatta.

     But what if Abner had instead put his dollar in a single 
investment and held it until it doubled the same 27 1/2 times?  In 
that case, he would have realized about $200 million pre-tax or, 
after paying a $70 million tax in the final year, about $130 
million after-tax.  For that, Appassionatta would have crawled to 
Dogpatch.  Of course, with 27 1/2 years having passed, how 
Appassionatta would have looked to a fellow sitting on $130 million 
is another question.

     What this little tale tells us is that tax-paying investors 
will realize a far, far greater sum from a single investment that 
compounds internally at a given rate than from a succession of 
investments compounding at the same rate.  But I suspect many 
Berkshire shareholders figured that out long ago.

Insurance Operations

     At this point in the report we've customarily provided you 
with a table showing the annual "combined ratio" of the insurance 
industry for the preceding decade.  This ratio compares total 
insurance costs (losses incurred plus expenses) to revenue from 
premiums.  For many years, the ratio has been above 100, a level 
indicating an underwriting loss.  That is, the industry has taken 
in less money each year from its policyholders than it has had to 
pay for operating expenses and for loss events that occurred during 
the year.

     Offsetting this grim equation is a happier fact:  Insurers get 
to hold on to their policyholders' money for a time before paying 
it out.  This happens because most policies require that premiums 
be prepaid and, more importantly, because it often takes time to 
resolve loss claims.  Indeed, in the case of certain lines of 
insurance, such as product liability or professional malpractice, 
many years may elapse between the loss event and payment.

     To oversimplify the matter somewhat, the total of the funds 
prepaid by policyholders and the funds earmarked for incurred-but-
not-yet-paid claims is called "the float." In the past, the 
industry was able to suffer a combined ratio of 107 to 111 and 
still break even from its insurance writings because of the 
earnings derived from investing this float.

     As interest rates have fallen, however, the value of float has 
substantially declined.  Therefore, the data that we have provided 
in the past are no longer useful for year-to-year comparisons of 
industry profitability.  A company writing at the same combined 
ratio now as in the 1980's today has a far less attractive business 
than it did then.

     Only by making an analysis that incorporates both underwriting 
results and the current risk-free earnings obtainable from float 
can one evaluate the true economics of the business that a 
property-casualty insurer writes.  Of course, the actual investment 
results that an insurer achieves from the use of both float and 
stockholders' funds is also of major importance and should be 
carefully examined when an investor is assessing managerial 
performance.  But that should be a separate analysis from the one 
we are discussing here.  The value of float funds - in effect, 
their transfer price as they move from the insurance operation to 
the investment operation - should be determined simply by the risk-
free, long-term rate of interest.

     On the next page we show the numbers that count in an 
evaluation of Berkshire's insurance business.  We calculate our 
float - which we generate in exceptional amounts relative to our 
premium volume - by adding loss reserves, loss adjustment reserves 
and unearned premium reserves and then subtracting agent's 
balances, prepaid acquisition costs and deferred charges applicable 
to assumed reinsurance.  Our cost of float is determined by our 
underwriting loss or profit.  In those years when we have had an 
underwriting profit, which includes 1993, our cost of float has 
been negative, and we have determined our insurance earnings by 
adding underwriting profit to float income.

                   (1)            (2)                          Yearend Yield
              Underwriting                     Approximate      on Long-Term
                  Loss       Average Float    Cost of Funds     Govt. Bonds 	
              ------------   -------------   ---------------   -------------
                    (In $ Millions)         (Ratio of 1 to 2)

1967             profit          $ 17.3      less than zero        5.50%
1968             profit            19.9      less than zero        5.90%
1969             profit            23.4      less than zero        6.79%
1970             $ 0.37            32.4               1.14%        6.25%
1971             profit            52.5      less than zero        5.81%
1972             profit            69.5      less than zero        5.82%
1973             profit            73.3      less than zero        7.27%
1974               7.36            79.1               9.30%        8.13%
1975              11.35            87.6              12.96%        8.03%
1976             profit           102.6      less than zero        7.30%
1977             profit           139.0      less than zero        7.97%
1978             profit           190.4      less than zero        8.93%
1979             profit           227.3      less than zero       10.08%
1980             profit           237.0      less than zero       11.94%
1981             profit           228.4      less than zero       13.61%
1982              21.56           220.6               9.77%       10.64%
1983              33.87           231.3              14.64%       11.84%
1984              48.06           253.2              18.98%       11.58%
1985              44.23           390.2              11.34%        9.34%
1986              55.84           797.5               7.00%        7.60%
1987              55.43         1,266.7               4.38%        8.95%
1988              11.08         1,497.7               0.74%        9.00%
1989              24.40         1,541.3               1.58%        7.97%
1990              26.65         1,637.3               1.63%        8.24%
1991             119.59         1,895.0               6.31%        7.40%
1992             108.96         2,290.4               4.76%        7.39%
1993             profit         2,624.7      less than zero        6.35%

     As you can see, in our insurance operation last year we had 
the use of $2.6 billion at no cost; in fact we were paid $31 
million, our underwriting profit, to hold these funds.  This sounds 
good  - is good - but is far from as good as it sounds.

     We temper our enthusiasm because we write a large volume of 
"super-cat" policies (which other insurance and reinsurance 
companies buy to recover part of the losses they suffer from mega-
catastrophes) and because last year we had no losses of consequence 
from this activity.  As that suggests, the truly catastrophic 
Midwestern floods of 1993 did not trigger super-cat losses, the 
reason being that very few flood policies are purchased from 
private insurers.

     It would be fallacious, however, to conclude from this single-
year result that the super-cat business is a wonderful one, or even 
a satisfactory one.  A simple example will illustrate the fallacy: 
Suppose there is an event that occurs 25 times in every century.  
If you annually give 5-for-1 odds against its occurrence that year, 
you will have many more winning years than losers.  Indeed, you may 
go a straight six, seven or more years without loss.  You also will 
eventually go broke.

     At Berkshire, we naturally believe we are obtaining adequate 
premiums and giving more like 3 1/2-for-1 odds.  But there is no way 
for us - or anyone else - to calculate the true odds on super-cat 
coverages.  In fact, it will take decades for us to find out 
whether our underwriting judgment has been sound.

     What we do know is that when a loss comes, it's likely to be a 
lulu.  There may well be years when Berkshire will suffer losses 
from the super-cat business equal to three or four times what we 
earned from it in 1993.  When Hurricane Andrew blew in 1992, we 
paid out about $125 million.  Because we've since expanded our 
super-cat business, a similar storm today could cost us $600 
million.

     So far, we have been lucky in 1994.  As I write this letter, 
we are estimating that our losses from the Los Angeles earthquake 
will be nominal.  But if the quake had been a 7.5 instead of a 6.8, 
it would have been a different story.

     Berkshire is ideally positioned to write super-cat policies.  
In Ajit Jain, we have by far the best manager in this business.  
Additionally, companies writing these policies need enormous 
capital, and our net worth is ten to twenty times larger than that 
of our main competitors.  In most lines of insurance, huge 
resources aren't that important:  An insurer can diversify the 
risks it writes and, if necessary, can lay off risks to reduce 
concentration in its portfolio.  That isn't possible in the super-
cat business.  So these competitors are forced into offering far 
smaller limits than those we can provide.  Were they bolder, they 
would run the risk that a mega-catastrophe - or a confluence of 
smaller catastrophes - would wipe them out.

     One indication of our premier strength and reputation is that 
each of the four largest reinsurance companies in the world buys 
very significant reinsurance coverage from Berkshire.  Better than 
anyone else, these giants understand that the test of a reinsurer 
is its ability and willingness to pay losses under trying 
circumstances, not its readiness to accept premiums when things 
look rosy.

     One caution:  There has recently been a substantial increase 
in reinsurance capacity.  Close to $5 billion of equity capital has 
been raised by reinsurers, almost all of them newly-formed 
entities.  Naturally these new entrants are hungry to write 
business so that they can justify the projections they utilized in 
attracting capital.  This new competition won't affect our 1994 
operations; we're filled up there, primarily with business written 
in 1993.  But we are now seeing signs of price deterioration.  If 
this trend continues, we will resign ourselves to much-reduced 
volume, keeping ourselves available, though, for the large, 
sophisticated buyer who requires a super-cat insurer with large 
capacity and a sure ability to pay losses.

     In other areas of our insurance business, our homestate 
operation, led by Rod Eldred; our workers' compensation business, 
headed by Brad Kinstler; our credit-card operation, managed by the 
Kizer family; and National Indemnity's traditional auto and general 
liability business, led by Don Wurster, all achieved excellent 
results.  In combination, these four units produced a significant 
underwriting profit and substantial float.

     All in all, we have a first-class insurance business.  Though 
its results will be highly volatile, this operation possesses an 
intrinsic value that exceeds its book value by a large amount - 
larger, in fact, than is the case at any other Berkshire business.

Common Stock Investments

     Below we list our common stockholdings having a value of over 
$250 million.  A small portion of these investments belongs to 
subsidiaries of which Berkshire owns less than 100%.

                                                           12/31/93
  Shares    Company                                   Cost         Market
  ------    -------                                ----------    ----------
                                                        (000s omitted)
 2,000,000  Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. ............. $  345,000    $1,239,000
93,400,000  The Coca-Cola Company. ...............  1,023,920     4,167,975
13,654,600  Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 
               ("Freddie Mac") ...................    307,505       681,023	
34,250,000  GEICO Corp. ..........................     45,713     1,759,594
 4,350,000  General Dynamics Corp. ...............     94,938       401,287
24,000,000  The Gillette Company .................    600,000     1,431,000
38,335,000  Guinness PLC .........................    333,019       270,822
 1,727,765  The Washington Post Company. .........      9,731       440,148
 6,791,218  Wells Fargo & Company ................    423,680       878,614

     Considering the similarity of this year's list and the last, 
you may decide your management is hopelessly comatose.  But we 
continue to think that it is usually foolish to part with an 
interest in a business that is both understandable and durably 
wonderful.  Business interests of that kind are simply too hard to 
replace.

     Interestingly, corporate managers have no trouble 
understanding that point when they are focusing on a business they 
operate:  A parent company that owns a subsidiary with superb long-
term economics is not likely to sell that entity regardless of 
price.  "Why," the CEO would ask, "should I part with my crown 
jewel?"  Yet that same CEO, when it comes to running his personal 
investment portfolio, will offhandedly - and even impetuously - 
move from business to business when presented with no more than 
superficial arguments by his broker for doing so.  The worst of 
these is perhaps, "You can't go broke taking a profit."  Can you 
imagine a CEO using this line to urge his board to sell a star 
subsidiary?  In our view, what makes sense in business also makes 
sense in stocks:  An investor should ordinarily hold a small piece 
of an outstanding business with the same tenacity that an owner 
would exhibit if he owned all of that business.

     Earlier I mentioned the financial results that could have been 
achieved by investing $40 in The Coca-Cola Co. in 1919.  In 1938, 
more than 50 years after the introduction of Coke, and long after 
the drink was firmly established as an American icon, Fortune did 
an excellent story on the company.  In the second paragraph the 
writer reported:  "Several times every year a weighty and serious 
investor looks long and with profound respect at Coca-Cola's 
record, but comes regretfully to the conclusion that he is looking 
too late.  The specters of saturation and competition rise before 
him."

     Yes, competition there was in 1938 and in 1993 as well.  But 
it's worth noting that in 1938 The Coca-Cola Co. sold 207 million 
cases of soft drinks (if its gallonage then is converted into the 
192-ounce cases used for measurement today) and in 1993 it sold 
about 10.7 billion cases, a 50-fold increase in physical volume 
from a company that in 1938 was already dominant in its very major 
industry.  Nor was the party over in 1938 for an investor:  Though 
the $40 invested in 1919 in one share had (with dividends 
reinvested) turned into $3,277 by the end of 1938, a fresh $40 then 
invested in Coca-Cola stock would have grown to $25,000 by yearend 
1993.

     I can't resist one more quote from that 1938 Fortune story:  
"It would be hard to name any company comparable in size to Coca-
Cola and selling, as Coca-Cola does, an unchanged product that can 
point to a ten-year record anything like Coca-Cola's."  In the 55 
years that have since passed, Coke's product line has broadened 
somewhat, but it's remarkable how well that description still fits.

     Charlie and I decided long ago that in an investment lifetime 
it's just too hard to make hundreds of smart decisions.  That 
judgment became ever more compelling as Berkshire's capital 
mushroomed and the universe of investments that could significantly 
affect our results shrank dramatically.  Therefore, we adopted a 
strategy that required our being smart - and not too smart at that 
- only a very few times.  Indeed, we'll now settle for one good 
idea a year.  (Charlie says it's my turn.)

     The strategy we've adopted precludes our following standard 
diversification dogma.  Many pundits would therefore say the 
strategy must be riskier than that employed by more conventional 
investors.  We disagree.  We believe that a policy of portfolio 
concentration may well decrease risk if it raises, as it should,  
both the intensity with which an investor thinks about a business 
and the comfort-level he must feel with its economic characteristics 
before buying into it.  In stating this opinion, we define risk, 
using dictionary terms, as "the possibility of loss or injury."

     Academics, however, like to define investment "risk" 
differently, averring that it is the relative volatility of a stock 
or portfolio of stocks - that is, their volatility as compared to 
that of a large universe of stocks.  Employing data bases and 
statistical skills, these academics compute with precision the 
"beta" of a stock - its relative volatility in the past - and then 
build arcane investment and capital-allocation theories around this 
calculation.  In their hunger for a single statistic to measure 
risk, however, they forget a fundamental principle:  It is better 
to be approximately right than precisely wrong.

     For owners of a business - and that's the way we think of 
shareholders - the academics' definition of risk is far off the 
mark, so much so that it produces absurdities.  For example, under 
beta-based theory, a stock that has dropped very sharply compared 
to the market - as had Washington Post when we bought it in 1973 - 
becomes "riskier" at the lower price than it was at the higher 
price.  Would that description have then made any sense to someone 
who was offered the entire company at a vastly-reduced price?

     In fact, the true investor welcomes volatility.  Ben Graham 
explained why in Chapter 8 of The Intelligent Investor.  There he 
introduced "Mr. Market," an obliging fellow who shows up every day 
to either buy from you or sell to you, whichever you wish.  The 
more manic-depressive this chap is, the greater the opportunities 
available to the investor.  That's true because a wildly 
fluctuating market means that irrationally low prices will 
periodically be attached to solid businesses.  It is impossible to 
see how the availability of such prices can be thought of as 
increasing the hazards for an investor who is totally free to 
either ignore the market or exploit its folly.

     In assessing risk, a beta purist will disdain examining what a 
company produces, what its competitors are doing, or how much 
borrowed money the business employs.  He may even prefer not to 
know the company's name.  What he treasures is the price history of 
its stock.  In contrast, we'll happily forgo knowing the price 
history and instead will seek whatever information will further our 
understanding of the company's business.  After we buy a stock, 
consequently, we would not be disturbed if markets closed for a 
year or two.  We don't need a daily quote on our 100% position in 
See's or H. H. Brown to validate our well-being.  Why, then, should 
we need a quote on our 7% interest in Coke?

     In our opinion, the real risk that an investor must assess is 
whether his aggregate after-tax receipts from an investment 
(including those he receives on sale) will, over his prospective 
holding period, give him at least as much purchasing power as he 
had to begin with, plus a modest rate of interest on that initial 
stake.  Though this risk cannot be calculated with engineering 
precision, it can in some cases be judged with a degree of accuracy 
that is useful.  The primary factors bearing upon this evaluation 
are:

     1) The certainty with which the long-term economic 
        characteristics of the business can be evaluated;

     2) The certainty with which management can be evaluated, 
        both as to its ability to realize the full potential of 
        the business and to wisely employ its cash flows;

     3) The certainty with which management can be counted on 
        to channel the rewards from the business to the 
        shareholders rather than to itself;

     4) The purchase price of the business;

     5) The levels of taxation and inflation that will be 
        experienced and that will determine the degree by which 
        an investor's purchasing-power return is reduced from his 
        gross return.

     These factors will probably strike many analysts as unbearably 
fuzzy, since they cannot be extracted from a data base of any kind. 
But the difficulty of precisely quantifying these matters does not 
negate their importance nor is it insuperable.  Just as Justice 
Stewart found it impossible to formulate a test for obscenity but 
nevertheless asserted, "I know it when I see it," so also can 
investors - in an inexact but useful way - "see" the risks inherent 
in certain investments without reference to complex equations or 
price histories.

     Is it really so difficult to conclude that Coca-Cola and 
Gillette possess far less business risk over the long term than, 
say, any computer company or retailer?  Worldwide, Coke sells about 
44% of all soft drinks, and Gillette has more than a 60% share (in 
value) of the blade market.  Leaving aside chewing gum, in which 
Wrigley is dominant, I know of no other significant businesses in 
which the leading company has long enjoyed such global power.

     Moreover, both Coke and Gillette have actually increased their 
worldwide shares of market in recent years.  The might of their 
brand names, the attributes of their products, and the strength of 
their distribution systems give them an enormous competitive 
advantage, setting up a protective moat around their economic 
castles.  The average company, in contrast, does battle daily 
without any such means of protection.  As Peter Lynch says, stocks 
of companies selling commodity-like products should come with a 
warning label:  "Competition may prove hazardous to human wealth."

	The competitive strengths of a Coke or Gillette are obvious to 
even the casual observer of business.  Yet the beta of their stocks 
is similar to that of a great many run-of-the-mill companies who 
possess little or no competitive advantage.  Should we conclude 
from this similarity that the competitive strength of Coke and 
Gillette gains them nothing when business risk is being measured?  
Or should we conclude that the risk in owning a piece of a company 
- its stock - is somehow divorced from the long-term risk inherent 
in its business operations?  We believe neither conclusion makes 
sense and that equating beta with investment risk also makes no 
sense.

     The theoretician bred on beta has no mechanism for 
differentiating the risk inherent in, say, a single-product toy 
company selling pet rocks or hula hoops from that of another toy 
company whose sole product is Monopoly or Barbie.  But it's quite 
possible for ordinary investors to make such distinctions if they 
have a reasonable understanding of consumer behavior and the 
factors that create long-term competitive strength or weakness.  
Obviously, every investor will make mistakes.  But by confining 
himself to a relatively few, easy-to-understand cases, a reasonably 
intelligent, informed and diligent person can judge investment 
risks with a useful degree of accuracy.

     In many industries, of course, Charlie and I can't determine 
whether we are dealing with a "pet rock" or a "Barbie."  We 
couldn't solve this problem, moreover, even if we were to spend 
years intensely studying those industries.  Sometimes our own 
intellectual shortcomings would stand in the way of understanding, 
and in other cases the nature of the industry would be the 
roadblock.  For example, a business that must deal with fast-moving 
technology is not going to lend itself to reliable evaluations of 
its long-term economics.  Did we foresee thirty years ago what 
would transpire in the television-manufacturing or computer 
industries?  Of course not.  (Nor did most of the investors and 
corporate managers who enthusiastically entered those industries.) 
Why, then, should Charlie and I now think we can predict the 
future of other rapidly-evolving businesses?  We'll stick instead 
with the easy cases.  Why search for a needle buried in a haystack 
when one is sitting in plain sight?

     Of course, some investment strategies - for instance, our 
efforts in arbitrage over the years - require wide diversification. 
If significant risk exists in a single transaction, overall risk 
should be reduced by making that purchase one of many mutually-
independent commitments.  Thus, you may consciously purchase a 
risky investment - one that indeed has a significant possibility of 
causing loss or injury - if you believe that your gain, weighted 
for probabilities, considerably exceeds your loss, comparably 
weighted, and if you can commit to a number of similar, but 
unrelated opportunities.  Most venture capitalists employ this 
strategy.  Should you choose to pursue this course, you should 
adopt the outlook of the casino that owns a roulette wheel, which 
will want to see lots of action because it is favored by 
probabilities, but will refuse to accept a single, huge bet.

     Another situation requiring wide diversification occurs when 
an investor who does not understand the economics of specific 
businesses nevertheless believes it in his interest to be a long-
term owner of American industry.  That investor should both own a 
large number of equities and space out his purchases.  By 
periodically investing in an index fund, for example, the know-
nothing investor can actually out-perform most investment 
professionals.  Paradoxically, when "dumb" money acknowledges its 
limitations, it ceases to be dumb.

     On the other hand, if you are a know-something investor, able 
to understand business economics and to find five to ten sensibly-
priced companies that possess important long-term competitive 
advantages, conventional diversification makes no sense for you.  
It is apt simply to hurt your results and increase your risk.  I 
cannot understand why an investor of that sort elects to put money 
into a business that is his 20th favorite rather than simply adding 
that money to his top choices - the businesses he understands best 
and that present the least risk, along with the greatest profit 
potential.  In the words of the prophet Mae West:  "Too much of a 
good thing can be wonderful."

Corporate Governance

     At our annual meetings, someone usually asks "What happens to 
this place if you get hit by a truck?"  I'm glad they are still 
asking the question in this form.  It won't be too long before the 
query becomes:  "What happens to this place if you don't get hit by 
a truck?"

     Such questions, in any event, raise a reason for me to discuss 
corporate governance, a hot topic during the past year.  In 
general, I believe that directors have stiffened their spines 
recently and that shareholders are now being treated somewhat more 
like true owners than was the case not long ago.  Commentators on 
corporate governance, however, seldom make any distinction among 
three fundamentally different manager/owner situations that exist 
in publicly-held companies.  Though the legal responsibility of 
directors is identical throughout, their ability to effect change 
differs in each of the cases.  Attention usually falls on the first 
case, because it prevails on the corporate scene.  Since Berkshire 
falls into the second category, however, and will someday fall into 
the third, we will discuss all three variations.

     The first, and by far most common, board situation is one in 
which a corporation has no controlling shareholder.  In that case, 
I believe directors should behave as if there is a single absentee 
owner, whose long-term interest they should try to further in all 
proper ways.  Unfortunately, "long-term" gives directors a lot of 
wiggle room.  If they lack either integrity or the ability to think 
independently, directors can do great violence to shareholders 
while still claiming to be acting in their long-term interest.  But 
assume the board is functioning well and must deal with a 
management that is mediocre or worse.  Directors then have the 
responsibility for changing that management, just as an intelligent 
owner would do if he were present.  And if able but greedy managers 
over-reach and try to dip too deeply into the shareholders' 
pockets, directors must slap their hands.

     In this plain-vanilla case, a director who sees something he 
doesn't like should attempt to persuade the other directors of his 
views.  If he is successful, the board will have the muscle to make 
the appropriate change.  Suppose, though, that the unhappy director 
can't get other directors to agree with him.  He should then feel 
free to make his views known to the absentee owners.  Directors 
seldom do that, of course.  The temperament of many directors would 
in fact be incompatible with critical behavior of that sort.  But I 
see nothing improper in such actions, assuming the issues are 
serious.  Naturally, the complaining director can expect a vigorous 
rebuttal from the unpersuaded directors, a prospect that should 
discourage the dissenter from pursuing trivial or non-rational 
causes.

     For the boards just discussed, I believe the directors ought 
to be relatively few in number - say, ten or less - and ought to 
come mostly from the outside.  The outside board members should 
establish standards for the CEO's performance and should also 
periodically meet, without his being present, to evaluate his 
performance against those standards.

     The requisites for board membership should be business savvy, 
interest in the job, and owner-orientation.  Too often, directors 
are selected simply because they are prominent or add diversity to 
the board.  That practice is a mistake.  Furthermore, mistakes in 
selecting directors are particularly serious because appointments 
are so hard to undo:  The pleasant but vacuous director need never 
worry about job security.

     The second case is that existing at Berkshire, where the 
controlling owner is also the manager.  At some companies, this 
arrangement is facilitated by the existence of two classes of stock 
endowed with disproportionate voting power.  In these situations, 
it's obvious that the board does not act as an agent between owners 
and management and that the directors cannot effect change except 
through persuasion.  Therefore, if the owner/manager is mediocre or 
worse - or is over-reaching - there is little a director can do 
about it except object.  If the directors having no connections to 
the owner/manager make a unified argument, it may well have some 
effect.  More likely it will not.

     If change does not come, and the matter is sufficiently 
serious, the outside directors should resign.  Their resignation 
will signal their doubts about management, and it will emphasize 
that no outsider is in a position to correct the owner/manager's 
shortcomings.

     The third governance case occurs when there is a controlling 
owner who is not involved in management.  This case, examples of 
which are Hershey Foods and Dow Jones, puts the outside directors 
in a potentially useful position.  If they become unhappy with 
either the competence or integrity of the manager, they can go 
directly to the owner (who may also be on the board) and report 
their dissatisfaction.  This situation is ideal for an outside 
director, since he need make his case only to a single, presumably 
interested owner, who can forthwith effect change if the argument 
is persuasive.  Even so, the dissatisfied director has only that 
single course of action.  If he remains unsatisfied about a 
critical matter, he has no choice but to resign.

     Logically, the third case should be the most effective in 
insuring first-class management.  In the second case the owner is 
not going to fire himself, and in the first case, directors often 
find it very difficult to deal with mediocrity or mild over-
reaching.  Unless the unhappy directors can win over a majority of 
the board - an awkward social and logistical task, particularly if 
management's behavior is merely odious, not egregious - their hands 
are effectively tied.  In practice, directors trapped in situations 
of this kind usually convince themselves that by staying around 
they can do at least some good.  Meanwhile, management proceeds 
unfettered.

     In the third case, the owner is neither judging himself nor 
burdened with the problem of garnering a majority.  He can also 
insure that outside directors are selected who will bring useful 
qualities to the board.  These directors, in turn, will know that 
the good advice they give will reach the right ears, rather than 
being stifled by a recalcitrant management.  If the controlling 
owner is intelligent and self-confident, he will make decisions in 
respect to management that are meritocratic and pro-shareholder.  
Moreover - and this is critically important - he can readily 
correct any mistake he makes.

     At Berkshire we operate in the second mode now and will for as 
long as I remain functional.  My health, let me add, is excellent. 
For better or worse, you are likely to have me as an owner/manager 
for some time.

     After my death, all of my stock will go to my wife, Susie, 
should she survive me, or to a foundation if she dies before I do. 
In neither case will taxes and bequests require the sale of 
consequential amounts of stock.

     When my stock is transferred to either my wife or the 
foundation, Berkshire will enter the third governance mode, going 
forward with a vitally interested, but non-management, owner and 
with a management that must perform for that owner.  In preparation 
for that time, Susie was elected to the board a few years ago, and 
in 1993 our son, Howard, joined the board.  These family members 
will not be managers of the company in the future, but they will 
represent the controlling interest should anything happen to me.  
Most of our other directors are also significant owners of 
Berkshire stock, and each has a strong owner-orientation.  All in 
all, we're prepared for "the truck."

Shareholder-Designated Contributions

     About 97% of all eligible shares participated in Berkshire's 
1993 shareholder-designated contributions program.  Contributions 
made through the program were $9.4 million and 3,110 charities were 
recipients.

     Berkshire's practice in respect to discretionary philanthropy 
- as contrasted to its policies regarding contributions that are 
clearly related to the company's business activities - differs 
significantly from that of other publicly-held corporations.  
There, most corporate contributions are made pursuant to the wishes 
of the CEO (who often will be responding to social pressures), 
employees (through matching gifts), or directors (through matching 
gifts or requests they make of the CEO).

     At Berkshire, we believe that the company's money is the 
owners' money, just as it would be in a closely-held corporation, 
partnership, or sole proprietorship.  Therefore, if funds are to be 
given to causes unrelated to Berkshire's business activities, it is 
the charities favored by our owners that should receive them.  
We've yet to find a CEO who believes he should personally fund the 
charities favored by his shareholders.  Why, then, should they foot 
the bill for his picks?

     Let me add that our program is easy to administer.  Last fall, 
for two months, we borrowed one person from National Indemnity to 
help us implement the instructions that came from our 7,500 
registered shareholders.  I'd guess that the average corporate 
program in which employee gifts are matched incurs far greater 
administrative costs.  Indeed, our entire corporate overhead is 
less than half the size of our charitable contributions.  (Charlie, 
however, insists that I tell you that $1.4 million of our $4.9 million overhead is 
attributable to our corporate jet, The Indefensible.)

     Below is a list showing the largest categories to which our 
shareholders have steered their contributions.

     (a) 347 churches and synagogues received 569 gifts
     (b) 283 colleges and universities received 670 gifts
     (c) 244 K-12 schools (about two-thirds secular, one-
         third religious) received 525 gifts
     (d) 288 institutions dedicated to art, culture or the 
         humanities received 447 gifts
     (e) 180 religious social-service organizations (split 
         about equally between Christian and Jewish) received 
         411 gifts 
     (f) 445 secular social-service organizations (about 40% 
         youth-related) received 759 gifts
     (g) 153 hospitals received 261 gifts
     (h) 186 health-related organizations (American Heart 
         Association, American Cancer Society, etc.) received 
         320 gifts

     Three things about this list seem particularly interesting to 
me.  First, to some degree it indicates what people choose to give 
money to when they are acting of their own accord, free of pressure 
from solicitors or emotional appeals from charities.  Second, the 
contributions programs of publicly-held companies almost never 
allow gifts to churches and synagogues, yet clearly these 
institutions are what many shareholders would like to support.  
Third, the gifts made by our shareholders display conflicting 
philosophies:  130 gifts were directed to organizations that 
believe in making abortions readily available for women and 30 
gifts were directed to organizations (other than churches) that 
discourage or are opposed to abortion.

     Last year I told you that I was thinking of raising the amount 
that Berkshire shareholders can give under our designated-
contributions program and asked for your comments.  We received a 
few well-written letters opposing the entire idea, on the grounds 
that it was our job to run the business and not our job to force 
shareholders into making charitable gifts.  Most of the 
shareholders responding, however, noted the tax efficiency of the 
plan and urged us to increase the designated amount.  Several 
shareholders who have given stock to their children or 
grandchildren told me that they consider the program a particularly 
good way to get youngsters thinking at an early age about the 
subject of giving.  These people, in other words, perceive the 
program to be an educational, as well as philanthropic, tool.  The 
bottom line is that we did raise the amount in 1993, from $8 per 
share to $10.

     In addition to the shareholder-designated contributions that 
Berkshire distributes, our operating businesses make contributions, 
including merchandise, averaging about $2.5 million annually.  
These contributions support local charities, such as The United 
Way, and produce roughly commensurate benefits for our businesses.

     We suggest that new shareholders read the description of our 
shareholder-designated contributions program that appears on pages 
50-51.  To participate in future programs, you must make sure your 
shares are registered in the name of the actual owner, not in the 
nominee name of a broker, bank or depository.  Shares not so 
registered on August 31, 1994 will be ineligible for the 1994 
program.

A Few Personal Items

     Mrs. B - Rose Blumkin - had her 100th birthday on December 3, 
1993.  (The candles cost more than the cake.)  That was a day on 
which the store was scheduled to be open in the evening.  Mrs. B, 
who works seven days a week, for however many hours the store 
operates, found the proper decision quite obvious:  She simply 
postponed her party until an evening when the store was closed.

     Mrs. B's story is well-known but worth telling again.  She 
came to the United States 77 years ago, unable to speak English and 
devoid of formal schooling.  In 1937, she founded the Nebraska 
Furniture Mart with $500.  Last year the store had sales of $200 
million, a larger amount by far than that recorded by any other 
home furnishings store in the United States.  Our part in all of 
this began ten years ago when Mrs. B sold control of the business 
to Berkshire Hathaway, a deal we completed without obtaining 
audited financial statements, checking real estate records, or 
getting any warranties.  In short, her word was good enough for us.

     Naturally, I was delighted to attend Mrs. B's birthday party. 
After all, she's promised to attend my 100th.

                     * * * * * * * * * * * *

     Katharine Graham retired last year as the chairman of The 
Washington Post Company, having relinquished the CEO title three 
years ago.  In 1973, we purchased our stock in her company for 
about $10 million.  Our holding now garners $7 million a year in 
dividends and is worth over $400 million.  At the time of our 
purchase, we knew that the economic prospects of the company were 
good.  But equally important, Charlie and I concluded that Kay 
would prove to be an outstanding manager and would treat all 
shareholders honorably.  That latter consideration was particularly 
important because The Washington Post Company has two classes of 
stock, a structure that we've seen some managers abuse.

     All of our judgments about this investment have been validated 
by events.  Kay's skills as a manager were underscored this past 
year when she was elected by Fortune's Board of Editors to the 
Business Hall of Fame.  On behalf of our shareholders, Charlie and 
I had long ago put her in Berkshire's Hall of Fame.

                     * * * * * * * * * * * *

     Another of last year's retirees was Don Keough of Coca-Cola, 
although, as he puts it, his retirement lasted "about 14 hours."  
Don is one of the most extraordinary human beings I've ever known - 
a man of enormous business talent, but, even more important, a man 
who brings out the absolute best in everyone lucky enough to 
associate with him.  Coca-Cola wants its product to be present at 
the happy times of a person's life.  Don Keough, as an individual, 
invariably increases the happiness of those around him.  It's 
impossible to think about Don without feeling good.

     I will edge up to how I met Don by slipping in a plug for my 
neighborhood in Omaha:  Though Charlie has lived in California for 
45 years, his home as a boy was about 200 feet away from the house 
where I now live; my wife, Susie, grew up 1 1/2 blocks away; and we 
have about 125 Berkshire shareholders in the zip code.  As for Don, 
in 1958 he bought the house directly across the street from mine.  
He was then a coffee salesman with a big family and a small income.

     The impressions I formed in those days about Don were a factor 
in my decision to have Berkshire make a record $1 billion 
investment in Coca-Cola in 1988-89.  Roberto Goizueta had become 
CEO of Coke in 1981, with Don alongside as his partner.  The two of 
them took hold of a company that had stagnated during the previous 
decade and moved it from $4.4 billion of market value to $58 
billion in less than 13 years.  What a difference a pair of 
managers like this makes, even when their product has been around 
for 100 years.

                      * * * * * * * * * * * *

     Frank Rooney did double duty last year.  In addition to 
leading H. H. Brown to record profits - 35% above the 1992 high - 
he also was key to our merger with Dexter.

     Frank has known Harold Alfond and Peter Lunder for decades, 
and shortly after our purchase of H. H. Brown, told me what a 
wonderful operation they managed.  He encouraged us to get together 
and in due course we made a deal.  Frank told Harold and Peter that 
Berkshire would provide an ideal corporate "home" for Dexter, and 
that assurance undoubtedly contributed to their decision to join 
with us.

     I've told you in the past of Frank's extraordinary record in 
building Melville Corp. during his 23 year tenure as CEO.  Now, at 
72, he's setting an even faster pace at Berkshire.  Frank has a 
low-key, relaxed style, but don't let that fool you.  When he 
swings, the ball disappears far over the fence.

The Annual Meeting

     This year the Annual Meeting will be held at the Orpheum 
Theater in downtown Omaha at 9:30 a.m. on Monday, April 25, 1994.  
A record 2,200 people turned up for the meeting last year, but the 
theater can handle many more.  We will have a display in the lobby 
featuring many of our consumer products - candy, spray guns, shoes, 
cutlery, encyclopedias, and the like.  Among my favorites slated to 
be there is a See's candy assortment that commemorates Mrs. B's 
100th birthday and that features her picture, rather than Mrs. 
See's, on the package.

     We recommend that you promptly get hotel reservations at one 
of these hotels: (1) The Radisson-Redick Tower, a small (88 rooms) 
but nice hotel across the street from the Orpheum; (2) the much 
larger Red Lion Hotel, located about a five-minute walk from the 
Orpheum; or (3) the Marriott, located in West Omaha about 100 yards 
from Borsheim's, which is a twenty-minute drive from downtown. We 
will have buses at the Marriott that will leave at 8:30 and 8:45 
for the meeting and return after it ends.

     An attachment to our proxy material explains how you can 
obtain the card you will need for admission to the meeting.  With 
the admission card, we will enclose information about parking 
facilities located near the Orpheum.  If you are driving, come a 
little early.  Nearby lots fill up quickly and you may have to walk 
a few blocks.

     As usual, we will have buses to take you to Nebraska Furniture 
Mart and Borsheim's after the meeting and to take you from there to 
downtown hotels or the airport later.  Those of you arriving early 
can visit the Furniture Mart any day of the week; it is open from 
10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. on Saturdays and from noon to 5:30 p.m. on 
Sundays.  Borsheim's normally is closed on Sunday but will be open 
for shareholders and their guests from noon to 6 p.m. on Sunday, 
April 24.

     In past trips to Borsheim's, many of you have met Susan 
Jacques.  Early in 1994, Susan was made President and CEO of the 
company, having risen in 11 years from a $4-an-hour job that she 
took at the store when she was 23.  Susan will be joined at 
Borsheim's on Sunday by many of the managers of our other 
businesses, and Charlie and I will be there as well.

     On the previous evening, Saturday, April 23, there will be a 
baseball game at Rosenblatt Stadium between the Omaha Royals and 
the Nashville Sounds (which could turn out to be Michael Jordan's 
team).  As you may know, a few years ago I bought 25% of the Royals 
(a capital-allocation decision for which I will not become famous) 
and this year the league has cooperatively scheduled a home stand 
at Annual Meeting time.

     I will throw the first pitch on the 23rd, and it's a certainty 
that I will improve on last year's humiliating performance.  On 
that occasion, the catcher inexplicably called for my "sinker" and 
I dutifully delivered a pitch that barely missed my foot.  This 
year, I will go with my high hard one regardless of what the 
catcher signals, so bring your speed-timing devices.  The proxy 
statement will include information about obtaining tickets to the 
game.  I regret to report that you won't have to buy them from 
scalpers.



                                    Warren E. Buffett
March 1, 1994                       Chairman of the Board








Chairman's Letter - 1994



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.



To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:


     Our gain in net worth during 1994 was $1.45 billion or 13.9%.  
Over the last 30 years (that is, since present management took 
over) our per-share book value has grown from $19 to $10,083, or 
at a rate of 23% compounded annually.

     Charlie Munger, Berkshire's Vice Chairman and my partner, 
and I make few predictions.  One we will confidently offer, 
however, is that the future performance of Berkshire won't come 
close to matching the performance of the past.

     The problem is not that what has worked in the past will 
cease to work in the future.  To the contrary, we believe that 
our formula - the purchase at sensible prices of businesses that 
have good underlying economics and are run by honest and able 
people - is certain to produce reasonable success.  We expect, 
therefore, to keep on doing well.

     A fat wallet, however, is the enemy of superior investment 
results.  And Berkshire now has a net worth of $11.9 billion 
compared to about $22 million when Charlie and I began to manage 
the company.  Though there are as many good businesses as ever, 
it is useless for us to make purchases that are inconsequential 
in relation to Berkshire's capital.  (As Charlie regularly 
reminds me, "If something is not worth doing at all, it's not 
worth doing well.")  We now consider a security for purchase only 
if we believe we can deploy at least $100 million in it.  Given 
that minimum, Berkshire's investment universe has shrunk 
dramatically.

     Nevertheless, we will stick with the approach that got us 
here and try not to relax our standards.  Ted Williams, in 
The Story of My Life, explains why:  "My argument is, to be 
a good hitter, you've got to get a good ball to hit.  It's the 
first rule in the book.  If I have to bite at stuff that is out 
of my happy zone, I'm not a .344 hitter.  I might only be a .250 
hitter."  Charlie and I agree and will try to wait for 
opportunities that are well within our own "happy zone."

     We will continue to ignore political and economic forecasts, 
which are an expensive distraction for many investors and 
businessmen.  Thirty years ago, no one could have foreseen the 
huge expansion of the Vietnam War, wage and price controls, two 
oil shocks, the resignation of a president, the dissolution of 
the Soviet Union, a one-day drop in the Dow of 508 points, or 
treasury bill yields fluctuating between 2.8% and 17.4%.

     But, surprise - none of these blockbuster events made the 
slightest dent in Ben Graham's investment principles.  Nor did 
they render unsound the negotiated purchases of fine businesses 
at sensible prices.  Imagine the cost to us, then, if we had let 
a fear of unknowns cause us to defer or alter the deployment of 
capital.  Indeed, we have usually made our best purchases when 
apprehensions about some macro event were at a peak.  Fear is the 
foe of the faddist, but the friend of the fundamentalist.

     A different set of major shocks is sure to occur in the next 
30 years.  We will neither try to predict these nor to profit 
from them.  If we can identify businesses similar to those we 
have purchased in the past, external surprises will have little 
effect on our long-term results.

     What we promise you - along with more modest gains - is that 
during your ownership of Berkshire, you will fare just as Charlie 
and I do.  If you suffer, we will suffer; if we prosper, so will 
you.  And we will not break this bond by introducing compensation 
arrangements that give us a greater participation in the upside 
than the downside.

     We further promise you that our personal fortunes will 
remain overwhelmingly concentrated in Berkshire shares:  We will 
not ask you to invest with us and then put our own money 
elsewhere.  In addition, Berkshire dominates both the investment 
portfolios of most members of our families and of a great many 
friends who belonged to partnerships that Charlie and I ran in 
the 1960's.  We could not be more motivated to do our best.

     Luckily, we have a good base from which to work.  Ten years 
ago, in 1984, Berkshire's insurance companies held securities 
having a value of $1.7 billion, or about $1,500 per Berkshire 
share.  Leaving aside all income and capital gains from those 
securities, Berkshire's pre-tax earnings that year were only 
about $6 million.  We had earnings, yes, from our various 
manufacturing, retailing and service businesses, but they were 
almost entirely offset by the combination of underwriting losses 
in our insurance business, corporate overhead and interest 
expense.

     Now we hold securities worth $18 billion, or over $15,000 
per Berkshire share.  If you again exclude all income from these 
securities, our pre-tax earnings in 1994 were about $384 million. 
During the decade, employment has grown from 5,000 to 22,000 
(including eleven people at World Headquarters).

     We achieved our gains through the efforts of a superb corps 
of operating managers who get extraordinary results from some 
ordinary-appearing businesses.  Casey Stengel described managing 
a baseball team as "getting paid for home runs other fellows 
hit."  That's my formula at Berkshire, also.

     The businesses in which we have partial interests are 
equally important to Berkshire's success.  A few statistics will 
illustrate their significance:  In 1994, Coca-Cola sold about 280 
billion 8-ounce servings and earned a little less than a penny on 
each.  But pennies add up.  Through Berkshire's 7.8% ownership of 
Coke, we have an economic interest in 21 billion of its servings, 
which produce "soft-drink earnings" for us of nearly $200 
million.  Similarly, by way of its Gillette stock, Berkshire has 
a 7% share of the world's razor and blade market (measured by 
revenues, not by units), a proportion according us about $250 
million of sales in 1994.  And, at Wells Fargo, a $53 billion 
bank, our 13% ownership translates into a $7 billion "Berkshire 
Bank" that earned about $100 million during 1994.

     It's far better to own a significant portion of the Hope 
diamond than 100% of a rhinestone, and the companies just 
mentioned easily qualify as rare gems.  Best of all, we aren't 
limited to simply a few of this breed, but instead possess a 
growing collection.

     Stock prices will continue to fluctuate - sometimes sharply 
- and the economy will have its ups and down.  Over time, 
however, we believe it highly probable that the sort of 
businesses we own will continue to increase in value at a 
satisfactory rate.


Book Value and Intrinsic Value

     We regularly report our per-share book value, an easily 
calculable number, though one of limited use.  Just as regularly, 
we tell you that what counts is intrinsic value, a number that is 
impossible to pinpoint but essential to estimate.

     For example, in 1964, we could state with certitude that 
Berkshire's per-share book value was $19.46.  However, that 
figure considerably overstated the stock's intrinsic value since 
all of the company's resources were tied up in a sub-profitable 
textile business.  Our textile assets had neither going-concern 
nor liquidation values equal to their carrying values.  In 1964, 
then, anyone inquiring into the soundness of Berkshire's balance 
sheet might well have deserved the answer once offered up by a 
Hollywood mogul of dubious reputation:  "Don't worry, the 
liabilities are solid."

     Today, Berkshire's situation has reversed:  Many of the 
businesses we control are worth far more than their carrying 
value.  (Those we don't control, such as Coca-Cola or Gillette, 
are carried at current market values.)  We continue to give you 
book value figures, however, because they serve as a rough, 
albeit significantly understated, tracking measure for Berkshire's 
intrinsic value.  Last year, in fact, the two measures moved in 
concert:  Book value gained 13.9%, and that was the approximate 
gain in intrinsic value also.

     We define intrinsic value as the discounted value of the 
cash that can be taken out of a business during its remaining 
life.  Anyone calculating intrinsic value necessarily comes up 
with a highly subjective figure that will change both as 
estimates of future cash flows are revised and as interest rates 
move.  Despite its fuzziness, however, intrinsic value is all-
important and is the only logical way to evaluate the relative 
attractiveness of investments and businesses.

     To see how historical input (book value) and future output 
(intrinsic value) can diverge, let's look at another form of 
investment, a college education.  Think of the education's cost 
as its "book value."  If it is to be accurate, the cost should 
include the earnings that were foregone by the student because he 
chose college rather than a job.

     For this exercise, we will ignore the important non-economic 
benefits of an education and focus strictly on its economic 
value.  First, we must estimate the earnings that the graduate 
will receive over his lifetime and subtract from that figure an 
estimate of what he would have earned had he lacked his 
education.  That gives us an excess earnings figure, which must 
then be discounted, at an appropriate interest rate, back to 
graduation day.  The dollar result equals the intrinsic economic 
value of the education.

     Some graduates will find that the book value of their 
education exceeds its intrinsic value, which means that whoever 
paid for the education didn't get his money's worth.  In other 
cases, the intrinsic value of an education will far exceed its 
book value, a result that proves capital was wisely deployed.  In 
all cases, what is clear is that book value is meaningless as an 
indicator of intrinsic value.

     Now let's get less academic and look at Scott Fetzer, an 
example from Berkshire's own experience.  This account will not 
only illustrate how the relationship of book value and intrinsic 
value can change but also will provide an accounting lesson that 
I know you have been breathlessly awaiting.  Naturally, I've 
chosen here to talk about an acquisition that has turned out to 
be a huge winner.

     Berkshire purchased Scott Fetzer at the beginning of 1986.  
At the time, the company was a collection of 22 businesses, and 
today we have exactly the same line-up - no additions and no 
disposals.  Scott Fetzer's main operations are World Book, Kirby, 
and Campbell Hausfeld, but many other units are important 
contributors to earnings as well.

     We paid $315.2 million for Scott Fetzer, which at the time 
had $172.6 million of book value.  The $142.6 million premium we 
handed over indicated our belief that the company's intrinsic 
value was close to double its book value.

     In the table below we trace the book value of Scott Fetzer, 
as well as its earnings and dividends, since our purchase.
  
                       (1)                                 (4)
                    Beginning      (2)         (3)        Ending
Year                Book Value   Earnings   Dividends   Book Value
----                ----------   --------   ---------   ----------
                                   (In $ Millions)      (1)+(2)-(3)

1986 ...............  $172.6      $ 40.3     $125.0       $ 87.9
1987 ...............    87.9        48.6       41.0         95.5
1988 ...............    95.5        58.0       35.0        118.6
1989 ...............   118.6        58.5       71.5        105.5
1990 ...............   105.5        61.3       33.5        133.3
1991 ...............   133.3        61.4       74.0        120.7
1992 ...............   120.7        70.5       80.0        111.2
1993 ...............   111.2        77.5       98.0         90.7
1994 ...............    90.7        79.3       76.0         94.0


     Because it had excess cash when our deal was made, Scott 
Fetzer was able to pay Berkshire dividends of $125 million in 
1986, though it earned only $40.3 million.  I should mention that 
we have not introduced leverage into Scott Fetzer's balance 
sheet.  In fact, the company has gone from very modest debt when 
we purchased it to virtually no debt at all (except for debt used 
by its finance subsidiary).  Similarly, we have not sold plants 
and leased them back, nor sold receivables, nor the like.  
Throughout our years of ownership, Scott Fetzer has operated as a 
conservatively-financed and liquid enterprise.

     As you can see, Scott Fetzer's earnings have increased 
steadily since we bought it, but book value has not grown 
commensurately.  Consequently, return on equity, which was 
exceptional at the time of our purchase, has now become truly 
extraordinary.  Just how extraordinary is illustrated by 
comparing Scott Fetzer's performance to that of the Fortune 500, 
a group it would qualify for if it were a stand-alone company.

     Had Scott Fetzer been on the 1993 500 list - the latest 
available for inspection - the company's return on equity would 
have ranked 4th.  But that is far from the whole story.  The top 
three companies in return on equity were Insilco, LTV and Gaylord 
Container, each of which emerged from bankruptcy in 1993 and none 
of which achieved meaningful earnings that year except for those 
they realized when they were accorded debt forgiveness in 
bankruptcy proceedings.  Leaving aside such non-operating 
windfalls, Scott Fetzer's return on equity would have ranked it 
first on the Fortune 500, well ahead of number two.  Indeed, 
Scott Fetzer's return on equity was double that of the company 
ranking tenth.

     You might expect that Scott Fetzer's success could only be 
explained by a cyclical peak in earnings, a monopolistic 
position, or leverage.  But no such circumstances apply.  Rather, 
the company's success comes from the managerial expertise of CEO 
Ralph Schey, of whom I'll tell you more later.

     First, however, the promised accounting lesson:  When we 
paid a $142.6 million premium over book value for Scott Fetzer, 
that figure had to be recorded on Berkshire's balance sheet.  
I'll spare you the details of how this worked (these were laid 
out in an appendix to our 1986 Annual Report) and get to the 
bottom line:  After a premium is initially recorded, it must in 
almost all cases be written off over time through annual charges 
that are shown as costs in the acquiring company's earnings 
statement.

     The following table shows, first, the annual charges 
Berkshire has made to gradually extinguish the Scott Fetzer 
acquisition premium and, second, the premium that remains on our 
books.  These charges have no effect on cash or the taxes we pay, 
and are not, in our view, an economic cost (though many 
accountants would disagree with us).  They are merely a way for 
us to reduce the carrying value of Scott Fetzer on our books so 
that the figure will eventually match the net worth that Scott 
Fetzer actually employs in its business.

                      Beginning     Purchase-Premium      Ending
                       Purchase         Charge to        Purchase
Year                   Premium     Berkshire Earnings    Premium
----                  ---------    ------------------    --------
                                     (In $ Millions)

1986 ................  $142.6            $ 11.6           $131.0
1987 ................   131.0               7.1            123.9
1988 ................   123.9               7.9            115.9
1989 ................   115.9               7.0            108.9
1990 ................   108.9               7.1            101.9
1991 ................   101.9               6.9             95.0
1992 ................    95.0               7.7             87.2
1993 ................    87.2              28.1             59.1
1994 ................    59.1               4.9             54.2

     Note that by the end of 1994 the premium was reduced to 
$54.2 million.  When this figure is added to Scott Fetzer's year-
end book value of $94 million, the total is $148.2 million, which 
is the current carrying value of Scott Fetzer on Berkshire's 
books.  That amount is less than half of our carrying value for 
the company when it was acquired.  Yet Scott Fetzer is now 
earning about twice what it then did.  Clearly, the intrinsic 
value of the business has consistently grown, even though we have 
just as consistently marked down its carrying value through 
purchase-premium charges that reduced Berkshire's earnings and 
net worth.

     The difference between Scott Fetzer's intrinsic value and 
its carrying value on Berkshire's books is now huge.  As I 
mentioned earlier - but am delighted to mention again - credit 
for this agreeable mismatch goes to Ralph Schey, a focused, smart 
and high-grade manager.

     The reasons for Ralph's success are not complicated.  Ben 
Graham taught me 45 years ago that in investing it is not 
necessary to do extraordinary things to get extraordinary 
results.  In later life, I have been surprised to find that this 
statement holds true in business management as well.  What a 
manager must do is handle the basics well and not get diverted.  
That's precisely Ralph's formula.  He establishes the right goals 
and never forgets what he set out to do.  On the personal side, 
Ralph is a joy to work with.  He's forthright about problems and 
is self-confident without being self-important.

     He is also experienced.  Though I don't know Ralph's age, I 
do know that, like many of our managers, he is over 65.  At 
Berkshire, we look to performance, not to the calendar.  Charlie 
and I, at 71 and 64 respectively, now keep George Foreman's 
picture on our desks.  You can make book that our scorn for a 
mandatory retirement age will grow stronger every year.


Intrinsic Value and Capital Allocation

     Understanding intrinsic value is as important for managers 
as it is for investors.  When managers are making capital 
allocation decisions - including decisions to repurchase shares - 
it's vital that they act in ways that increase per-share 
intrinsic value and avoid moves that decrease it.  This principle 
may seem obvious but we constantly see it violated.  And, when 
misallocations occur, shareholders are hurt.

     For example, in contemplating business mergers and 
acquisitions, many managers tend to focus on whether the 
transaction is immediately dilutive or anti-dilutive to earnings 
per share (or, at financial institutions, to per-share book 
value).  An emphasis of this sort carries great dangers.  Going 
back to our college-education example, imagine that a 25-year-old 
first-year MBA student is considering merging his future economic 
interests with those of a 25-year-old day laborer.  The MBA 
student, a non-earner, would find that a "share-for-share" merger 
of his equity interest in himself with that of the day laborer 
would enhance his near-term earnings (in a big way!).  But what 
could be sillier for the student than a deal of this kind?

     In corporate transactions, it's equally silly for the would-
be purchaser to focus on current earnings when the prospective 
acquiree has either different prospects, different amounts of 
non-operating assets, or a different capital structure.  At 
Berkshire, we have rejected many merger and purchase 
opportunities that would have boosted current and near-term 
earnings but that would have reduced per-share intrinsic value.  
Our approach, rather, has been to follow Wayne Gretzky's advice: 
"Go to where the puck is going to be, not to where it is."  As a 
result, our shareholders are now many billions of dollars richer 
than they would have been if we had used the standard catechism.

     The sad fact is that most major acquisitions display an 
egregious imbalance:  They are a bonanza for the shareholders of 
the acquiree; they increase the income and status of the 
acquirer's management; and they are a honey pot for the 
investment bankers and other professionals on both sides.  But, 
alas, they usually reduce the wealth of the acquirer's shareholders, 
often to a substantial extent.  That happens because the acquirer 
typically gives up more intrinsic value than it receives.  Do that 
enough, says John Medlin, the retired head of Wachovia Corp., and 
"you are running a chain letter in reverse."

     Over time, the skill with which a company's managers 
allocate capital has an enormous impact on the enterprise's 
value.  Almost by definition, a really good business generates 
far more money (at least after its early years) than it can use 
internally.  The company could, of course, distribute the money 
to shareholders by way of dividends or share repurchases.  But 
often the CEO asks a strategic planning staff, consultants or 
investment bankers whether an acquisition or two might make 
sense.  That's like asking your interior decorator whether you 
need a $50,000 rug.

     The acquisition problem is often compounded by a biological 
bias:  Many CEO's attain their positions in part because they 
possess an abundance of animal spirits and ego.  If an executive 
is heavily endowed with these qualities - which, it should be 
acknowledged, sometimes have their advantages - they won't 
disappear when he reaches the top.  When such a CEO is encouraged 
by his advisors to make deals, he responds much as would a 
teenage boy who is encouraged by his father to have a normal sex 
life.  It's not a push he needs.

     Some years back, a CEO friend of mine - in jest, it must be 
said - unintentionally described the pathology of many big deals. 
This friend, who ran a property-casualty insurer, was explaining 
to his directors why he wanted to acquire a certain life 
insurance company.  After droning rather unpersuasively through 
the economics and strategic rationale for the acquisition, he 
abruptly abandoned the script.  With an impish look, he simply 
said:  "Aw, fellas, all the other kids have one."

     At Berkshire, our managers will continue to earn 
extraordinary returns from what appear to be ordinary businesses. 
As a first step, these managers will look for ways to deploy 
their earnings advantageously in their businesses.  What's left, 
they will send to Charlie and me.  We then will try to use those 
funds in ways that build per-share intrinsic value.  Our goal 
will be to acquire either part or all of businesses that we 
believe we understand, that have good, sustainable underlying 
economics, and that are run by managers whom we like, admire and 
trust.


Compensation

     At Berkshire, we try to be as logical about compensation as 
about capital allocation.  For example, we compensate Ralph Schey 
based upon the results of Scott Fetzer rather than those of 
Berkshire.  What could make more sense, since he's responsible 
for one operation but not the other?  A cash bonus or a stock 
option tied to the fortunes of Berkshire would provide totally 
capricious rewards to Ralph.  He could, for example, be hitting 
home runs at Scott Fetzer while Charlie and I rang up mistakes at 
Berkshire, thereby negating his efforts many times over.  
Conversely, why should option profits or bonuses be heaped upon 
Ralph if good things are occurring in other parts of Berkshire 
but Scott Fetzer is lagging?

     In setting compensation, we like to hold out the promise of 
large carrots, but make sure their delivery is tied directly to 
results in the area that a manager controls.  When capital 
invested in an operation is significant, we also both charge 
managers a high rate for incremental capital they employ and 
credit them at an equally high rate for capital they release.

     The product of this money's-not-free approach is definitely 
visible at Scott Fetzer.  If Ralph can employ incremental funds 
at good returns, it pays him to do so:  His bonus increases when 
earnings on additional capital exceed a meaningful hurdle charge. 
But our bonus calculation is symmetrical:  If incremental 
investment yields sub-standard returns, the shortfall is costly 
to Ralph as well as to Berkshire.  The consequence of this two-
way arrangement is that it pays Ralph - and pays him well - to 
send to Omaha any cash he can't advantageously use in his 
business.

     It has become fashionable at public companies to describe 
almost every compensation plan as aligning the interests of 
management with those of shareholders.  In our book, alignment 
means being a partner in both directions, not just on the upside. 
Many "alignment" plans flunk this basic test, being artful forms 
of "heads I win, tails you lose."

     A common form of misalignment occurs in the typical stock 
option arrangement, which does not periodically increase the 
option price to compensate for the fact that retained earnings 
are building up the wealth of the company.  Indeed, the 
combination of a ten-year option, a low dividend payout, and 
compound interest can provide lush gains to a manager who has 
done no more than tread water in his job.  A cynic might even 
note that when payments to owners are held down, the profit to 
the option-holding manager increases.  I have yet to see this 
vital point spelled out in a proxy statement asking shareholders 
to approve an option plan.

     I can't resist mentioning that our compensation arrangement 
with Ralph Schey was worked out in about five minutes, 
immediately upon our purchase of Scott Fetzer and without the 
"help" of lawyers or compensation consultants.  This arrangement 
embodies a few very simple ideas - not the kind of terms favored 
by consultants who cannot easily send a large bill unless they 
have established that you have a large problem (and one, of 
course, that requires an annual review).  Our agreement with 
Ralph has never been changed.  It made sense to him and to me in 
1986, and it makes sense now.  Our compensation arrangements with 
the managers of all our other units are similarly simple, though 
the terms of each agreement vary to fit the economic 
characteristics of the business at issue, the existence in some 
cases of partial ownership of the unit by managers, etc.

     In all instances, we pursue rationality.  Arrangements that 
pay off in capricious ways, unrelated to a manager's personal 
accomplishments, may well be welcomed by certain managers.  Who, 
after all, refuses a free lottery ticket?  But such arrangements 
are wasteful to the company and cause the manager to lose focus 
on what should be his real areas of concern.  Additionally, 
irrational behavior at the parent may well encourage imitative 
behavior at subsidiaries.

     At Berkshire, only Charlie and I have the managerial 
responsibility for the entire business.  Therefore, we are the 
only parties who should logically be compensated on the basis of 
what the enterprise does as a whole.  Even so, that is not a 
compensation arrangement we desire.  We have carefully designed 
both the company and our jobs so that we do things we enjoy with 
people we like.  Equally important, we are forced to do very few 
boring or unpleasant tasks.  We are the beneficiaries as well of 
the abundant array of material and psychic perks that flow to the 
heads of corporations.  Under such idyllic conditions, we don't 
expect shareholders to ante up loads of compensation for which we 
have no possible need.

     Indeed, if we were not paid at all, Charlie and I would be 
delighted with the cushy jobs we hold.  At bottom, we subscribe 
to Ronald Reagan's creed:  "It's probably true that hard work 
never killed anyone, but I figure why take the chance."


Sources of Reported Earnings

     The table on the next page shows the main sources of 
Berkshire's reported earnings.  In this presentation, purchase-
premium charges of the type we discussed in our earlier analysis 
of Scott Fetzer are not assigned to the specific businesses to 
which they apply, but are instead aggregated and shown 
separately.  This procedure lets you view the earnings of our 
businesses as they would have been reported had we not purchased 
them.  This form of presentation seems to us to be more useful to 
investors and managers than one utilizing GAAP, which requires 
purchase premiums to be charged off, business-by-business.  The 
total earnings we show in the table are, of course, identical to 
the GAAP total in our audited financial statements.

				         
			
                                                         Berkshire's Share  
                                                          of Net Earnings  
                                                         (after taxes and  
                                   Pre-Tax Earnings     minority interests)
                                  -------------------   -------------------
                                    1994       1993       1994       1993 
                                  --------   --------   --------   --------
                                               (000s omitted)
 
Operating Earnings:
  Insurance Group:
    Underwriting ...............  $129,926   $ 30,876   $ 80,860   $ 20,156 
    Net Investment Income ......   419,422    375,946    350,453    321,321 
  Buffalo News .................    54,238     50,962     31,685     29,696 
  Fechheimer ...................    14,260     13,442      7,107      6,931 
  Finance Businesses ...........    21,568     22,695     14,293     14,161 
  Kirby ........................    42,349     39,147     27,719     25,056 
  Nebraska Furniture Mart ......    17,356     21,540      8,652     10,398 
  Scott Fetzer Manufacturing Group  39,435     38,196     24,909     23,809 	 	
  See's Candies ................    47,539     41,150     28,247     24,367 
  Shoe Group ...................    85,503     44,025*    55,750     28,829 
  World Book ...................    24,662     19,915     17,275     13,537 
  Purchase-Price Premium Charges   (22,595)   (17,033)   (19,355)   (13,996)
  Interest Expense** ...........   (60,111)   (56,545)   (37,264)   (35,614)
  Shareholder-Designated 
     Contributions .............   (10,419)    (9,448)    (6,668)    (5,994)		
  Other ........................    36,232     28,428     22,576     15,094 
                                  --------   --------   --------   -------- 
Operating Earnings .............   839,365    643,296    606,239    477,751 
Sales of Securities ............    91,332    546,422     61,138    356,702 	
Decline in Value of 
     USAir Preferred Stock .....  (268,500)     ---     (172,579)     ---
Tax Accruals Caused by 
     New Accounting Rules ......     ---        ---        ---     (146,332)	
                                  --------  ---------   --------   --------
Total Earnings - All Entities ..  $662,197 $1,189,718   $494,798   $688,121 	
                                  ========  =========   ========   ========

* Includes Dexter's earnings only from the date it was acquired, 
  November 7, 1993.

**Excludes interest expense of Finance Businesses.


     A large amount of information about these businesses is given 
on pages 37-48, where you will also find our segment earnings 
reported on a GAAP basis.  In addition, on pages 53-59, we have 
rearranged Berkshire's financial data into four segments on a non-
GAAP basis, a presentation that corresponds to the way Charlie and 
I think about the company.  Our intent is to supply you with the 
financial information that we would wish you to give us if our 
positions were reversed.

"Look-Through" Earnings

     In past reports, we've discussed look-through earnings, which 
we believe more accurately portray the earnings of Berkshire than 
does our GAAP result.  As we calculate them, look-through earnings 
consist of: (1) the operating earnings reported in the previous 
section, plus; (2) the retained operating earnings of major 
investees that, under GAAP accounting, are not reflected in our 
profits, less; (3) an allowance for the tax that would be paid by 
Berkshire if these retained earnings of investees had instead been 
distributed to us.  The "operating earnings" of which we speak here 
exclude capital gains, special accounting items and major 
restructuring charges.

     If our intrinsic value is to grow at our target rate of 15%, 
our look-through earnings, over time, must also increase at about 
that pace.  When I first explained this concept a few years back, I 
told you that meeting this 15% goal would require us to generate 
look-through earnings of about $1.8 billion by 2000.  Because we've 
since issued about 3% more shares, that figure has grown to $1.85 
billion.

     We are now modestly ahead of schedule in meeting our goal, but 
to a significant degree that is because our super-cat insurance 
business has recently delivered earnings far above trend-line 
expectancy (an outcome I will discuss in the next section).  Giving 
due weight to that abnormality, we still expect to hit our target 
but that, of course, is no sure thing.

     The following table shows how we calculate look-through 
earnings, though I warn you that the figures are necessarily very 
rough.  (The dividends paid to us by these investees have been 
included in the operating earnings itemized on page 12, mostly 
under "Insurance Group:  Net Investment Income.") 

                                                         Berkshire's Share
                                                          of Undistributed
                               Berkshire's Approximate   Operating Earnings 
Berkshire's Major Investees	  Ownership at Yearend       (in millions) 
---------------------------    -----------------------   ------------------

                                   1994       1993         1994      1993
                                  ------     ------       ------    ------
American Express Company ......     5.5%       2.4%        $ 25(2)   $ 16
Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. ......    13.0%      13.0%          85        83(2)
The Coca-Cola Company .........     7.8%       7.2%         116(2)     94	  
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.    6.3%(1)    6.8%(1)       47(2)     41(2)	  
Gannett Co., Inc. .............     4.9%       ---            4(2)    --- 
GEICO Corp. ...................    50.2%      48.4%          63(3)     76(3)
The Gillette Company ..........    10.8%      10.9%          51        44	  
PNC Bank Corp. ................     8.3%       ---           10(2)    --- 
The Washington Post Company ...    15.2%      14.8%          18        15	  
Wells Fargo & Company .........    13.3%      12.2%          73        53(2)
                                                          ------    ------
Berkshire's share of undistributed 
   earnings of major investees                            $ 492      $422 	
Hypothetical tax on these undistributed 
   investee earnings(4)                                     (68)      (59)	 
Reported operating earnings of Berkshire                    606       478 	
                                                         -------    ------
     Total look-through earnings of Berkshire            $1,030     $ 841 

     (1) Does not include shares allocable to the minority interest 
         at Wesco
     (2) Calculated on average ownership for the year
     (3) Excludes realized capital gains, which have been both 
         recurring and significant
     (4) The tax rate used is 14%, which is the rate Berkshire pays 
         on the dividends it receives

Insurance Operations

     As we've explained in past reports, what counts in our 
insurance business is, first, the amount of "float" we develop and, 
second, its cost to us.  Float is money we hold but don't own.  In 
an insurance operation, float arises because most policies require 
that premiums be prepaid and, more importantly, because it usually 
takes time for an insurer to hear about and resolve loss claims.

     Typically, the premiums that an insurer takes in do not cover 
the losses and expenses it must pay.  That leaves it running an 
"underwriting loss" - and that loss is the cost of float.

     An insurance business is profitable over time if its cost of 
float is less than the cost the company would otherwise incur to 
obtain funds.  But the business has a negative value if the cost of 
its float is higher than market rates for money.

     As the numbers in the following table show, Berkshire's 
insurance business has been an enormous winner.  For the table, we 
have compiled our float -  which we generate in exceptional amounts 
relative to our premium volume - by adding loss reserves, loss 
adjustment reserves, funds held under reinsurance assumed and unearned 
premium reserves and then subtracting agents' balances, prepaid 
acquisition costs, prepaid taxes and deferred charges applicable to 
assumed reinsurance.  Our cost of float is determined by our 
underwriting loss or profit.  In those years when we have had an 
underwriting profit, such as the last two, our cost of float has been 
negative, and we have determined our insurance earnings by adding 
underwriting profit to float income.

                   (1)             (2)                        Yearend Yield
               Underwriting                    Approximate     on Long-Term
                   Loss       Average Float   Cost of Funds    Govt. Bonds 	
               ------------   -------------   -------------   -------------
                     (In $ Millions)        (Ratio of 1 to 2)

1967 ..........   profit         $  17.3     less than zero       5.50%
1968 ..........   profit            19.9     less than zero       5.90%
1969 ..........   profit            23.4     less than zero       6.79%
1970 ..........   $ 0.37            32.4              1.14%       6.25%
1971 ..........   profit            52.5     less than zero       5.81%
1972 ..........   profit            69.5     less than zero       5.82%
1973 ..........   profit            73.3     less than zero       7.27%
1974 ..........     7.36            79.1              9.30%       8.13%
1975 ..........    11.35            87.6             12.96%       8.03%
1976 ..........   profit           102.6     less than zero       7.30%
1977 ..........   profit           139.0     less than zero       7.97%
1978 ..........   profit           190.4     less than zero       8.93%
1979 ..........   profit           227.3     less than zero      10.08%
1980 ..........   profit           237.0     less than zero      11.94%
1981 ..........   profit           228.4     less than zero      13.61%
1982 ..........    21.56           220.6              9.77%      10.64%
1983 ..........    33.87           231.3             14.64%      11.84%
1984 ..........    48.06           253.2             18.98%      11.58%
1985 ..........    44.23           390.2             11.34%       9.34%
1986 ..........    55.84           797.5              7.00%       7.60%
1987 ..........    55.43         1,266.7              4.38%       8.95%
1988 ..........    11.08         1,497.7              0.74%       9.00%
1989 ..........    24.40         1,541.3              1.58%       7.97%
1990 ..........    26.65         1,637.3              1.63%       8.24%
1991 ..........   119.59         1,895.0              6.31%       7.40%
1992 ..........   108.96         2,290.4              4.76%       7.39%
1993 ..........   profit         2,624.7     less than zero       6.35%
1994 ..........   profit         3,056.6     less than zero       7.88%

     Charlie and I are delighted that our float grew in 1994 and 
are even more pleased that it proved to be cost-free.  But our 
message this year echoes the one we delivered in 1993:  Though we 
have a fine insurance business, it is not as good as it currently 
looks.

     The reason we must repeat this caution is that our "super-cat" 
business (which sells policies that insurance and reinsurance 
companies buy to protect themselves from the effects of mega-
catastrophes) was again highly profitable.  Since truly major 
catastrophes occur infrequently, our super-cat business can be 
expected to show large profits in most years but occasionally to 
record a huge loss.  In other words, the attractiveness of our 
super-cat business will take many years to measure.  Certainly 1994 
should be regarded as close to a best-case.  Our only significant 
losses arose from the California earthquake in January.  I will add 
that we do not expect to suffer a major loss from the early-1995 
Kobe earthquake.

     Super-cat policies are small in number, large in size and non-
standardized.  Therefore, the underwriting of this business 
requires far more judgment than, say, the underwriting of auto 
policies, for which a mass of data is available.  Here Berkshire 
has a major advantage:  Ajit Jain, our super-cat manager, whose 
underwriting skills are the finest.  His value to us is simply 
enormous.

     In addition, Berkshire has a special advantage in the super-
cat business because of our towering financial strength, which 
helps us in two ways.  First, a prudent insurer will want its 
protection against true mega-catastrophes - such as a $50 billion 
windstorm loss on Long Island or an earthquake of similar cost in 
California - to be absolutely certain.  But that same insurer knows 
that the disaster making it dependent on a large super-cat recovery 
is also the disaster that could cause many reinsurers to default.  
There's not much sense in paying premiums for coverage that will 
evaporate precisely when it is needed.  So the certainty that 
Berkshire will be both solvent and liquid after a catastrophe of 
unthinkable proportions is a major competitive advantage for us.

     The second benefit of our capital strength is that we can 
write policies for amounts that no one else can even consider.  For 
example, during 1994, a primary insurer wished to buy a short-term 
policy for $400 million of California earthquake coverage and we 
wrote the policy immediately.  We know of no one else in the world 
who would take a $400 million risk, or anything close to it, for 
their own account.

     Generally, brokers attempt to place coverage for large amounts 
by spreading the burden over a number of small policies.  But, at 
best, coverage of that sort takes considerable time to arrange.  In 
the meantime, the company desiring reinsurance is left holding a 
risk it doesn't want and that may seriously threaten its well-
being.  At Berkshire, on the other hand, we will quote prices for 
coverage as great as $500 million on the same day that we are asked 
to bid.  No one else in the industry will do the same.

     By writing coverages in large lumps, we obviously expose 
Berkshire to lumpy financial results.  That's totally acceptable to 
us:  Too often, insurers (as well as other businesses) follow sub-
optimum strategies in order to "smooth" their reported earnings.  
By accepting the prospect of volatility, we expect to earn higher 
long-term returns than we would by pursuing predictability.

     Given the risks we accept, Ajit and I constantly focus on our 
"worst case," knowing, of course, that it is difficult to judge 
what this is, since you could conceivably have a Long Island 
hurricane, a California earthquake, and Super Cat X all in the same 
year.  Additionally, insurance losses could be accompanied by non-
insurance troubles.  For example, were we to have super-cat losses 
from a large Southern California earthquake, they might well be 
accompanied by a major drop in the value of our holdings in See's, 
Wells Fargo and Freddie Mac.

     All things considered, we believe our worst-case insurance 
loss from a super-cat is now about $600 million after-tax, an 
amount that would slightly exceed Berkshire's annual earnings from 
other sources.  If you are not comfortable with this level of 
exposure, the time to sell your Berkshire stock is now, not after 
the inevitable mega-catastrophe.

     Our super-cat volume will probably be down in 1995.  Prices 
for garden-variety policies have fallen somewhat, and the torrent 
of capital that was committed to the reinsurance business a few 
years ago will be inclined to chase premiums, irrespective of their 
adequacy.  Nevertheless, we have strong relations with an important 
group of clients who will provide us with a substantial amount of 
business in 1995.

     Berkshire's other insurance operations had excellent results 
in 1994.  Our homestate operation, led by Rod Eldred; our workers' 
compensation business, headed by Brad Kinstler; our credit card 
operation, managed by the Kizer family; National Indemnity's 
traditional auto and general liability business, led by Don Wurster 
- all of these generated significant underwriting profits 
accompanied by substantial float.

     We can conclude this section as we did last year:  All in all, 
we have a first-class insurance business.  Though its results will 
be highly volatile, this operation possesses an intrinsic value 
that exceeds its book value by a large amount - larger, in fact, 
than is the case at any other Berkshire business.

Common Stock Investments

     Below we list our common stockholdings having a value of over 
$300 million.  A small portion of these investments belongs to 
subsidiaries of which Berkshire owns less than 100%.

                                                         12/31/94
  Shares     Company                                 Cost         Market
  ------     -------                              ----------    ----------
                                                       (000s omitted)
 27,759,941  American Express Company. .......... $  723,919    $  818,918
 20,000,000  Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. ...........    345,000     1,705,000
100,000,000  The Coca-Cola Company. .............  1,298,888     5,150,000
 12,761,200  Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 
                ("Freddie Mac") .................    270,468       644,441
  6,854,500  Gannett Co., Inc. ..................    335,216       365,002
 34,250,000  GEICO Corp. ........................     45,713     1,678,250
 24,000,000  The Gillette Company ...............    600,000     1,797,000
 19,453,300  PNC Bank Corporation ...............    503,046       410,951	
  1,727,765  The Washington Post Company ........      9,731       418,983
  6,791,218  Wells Fargo & Company ..............    423,680       984,727

     Our investments continue to be few in number and simple in 
concept:  The truly big investment idea can usually be explained in 
a short paragraph.  We like a business with enduring competitive 
advantages that is run by able and owner-oriented people.  When 
these attributes exist, and when we can make purchases at sensible 
prices, it is hard to go wrong (a challenge we periodically manage 
to overcome).

     Investors should remember that their scorecard is not computed 
using Olympic-diving methods:  Degree-of-difficulty doesn't count. 
If you are right about a business whose value is largely dependent 
on a single key factor that is both easy to understand and 
enduring, the payoff is the same as if you had correctly analyzed 
an investment alternative characterized by many constantly shifting 
and complex variables.

     We try to price, rather than time, purchases.  In our view, it 
is folly to forego buying shares in an outstanding business whose 
long-term future is predictable, because of short-term worries 
about an economy or a stock market that we know to be 
unpredictable.  Why scrap an informed decision because of an 
uninformed guess?

     We purchased National Indemnity in 1967, See's in 1972, 
Buffalo News in 1977, Nebraska Furniture Mart in 1983, and Scott 
Fetzer in 1986 because those are the years they became available 
and because we thought the prices they carried were acceptable.  In 
each case, we pondered what the business was likely to do, not what 
the Dow, the Fed, or the economy might do.  If we see this approach 
as making sense in the purchase of businesses in their entirety, 
why should we change tack when we are purchasing small pieces of 
wonderful businesses in the stock market?

     Before looking at new investments, we consider adding to old 
ones.  If a business is attractive enough to buy once, it may well 
pay to repeat the process.  We would love to increase our economic 
interest in See's or Scott Fetzer, but we haven't found a way to 
add to a 100% holding.  In the stock market, however, an investor 
frequently gets the chance to increase his economic interest in 
businesses he knows and likes.  Last year we went that direction by 
enlarging our holdings in Coca-Cola and American Express.

     Our history with American Express goes way back and, in fact, 
fits the pattern of my pulling current investment decisions out of 
past associations.  In 1951, for example, GEICO shares comprised 
70% of my personal portfolio and GEICO was also the first stock I 
sold - I was then 20 - as a security salesman (the sale was 100 
shares to my Aunt Alice who, bless her, would have bought anything 
I suggested).  Twenty-five years later, Berkshire purchased a major 
stake in GEICO at the time it was threatened with insolvency.  In 
another instance, that of the Washington Post, about half of my 
initial investment funds came from delivering the paper in the 
1940's.  Three decades later Berkshire purchased a large position 
in the company two years after it went public.  As for Coca-Cola, 
my first business venture - this was in the 1930's - was buying a 
six-pack of Coke for 25 cents and selling each bottle for 5 cents.  
It took only fifty years before I finally got it:  The real money 
was in the syrup.

     My American Express history includes a couple of episodes:  In 
the mid-1960's, just after the stock was battered by the company's 
infamous salad-oil scandal, we put about 40% of Buffett Partnership 
Ltd.'s capital into the stock - the largest investment the 
partnership had ever made.  I should add that this commitment gave 
us over 5% ownership in Amex at a cost of $13 million.  As I write 
this, we own just under 10%, which has cost us $1.36 billion.  
(Amex earned $12.5 million in 1964 and $1.4 billion in 1994.)

     My history with Amex's IDS unit, which today contributes about 
a third of the earnings of the company, goes back even further.  I 
first purchased stock in IDS in 1953 when it was growing rapidly 
and selling at a price-earnings ratio of only 3.  (There was a lot 
of low-hanging fruit in those days.)  I even produced a long report 
- do I ever write a short one? - on the company that I sold for $1 
through an ad in the Wall Street Journal.

     Obviously American Express and IDS (recently renamed American 
Express Financial Advisors) are far different operations today from 
what they were then.  Nevertheless, I find that a long-term 
familiarity with a company and its products is often helpful in 
evaluating it.

Mistake Du Jour

     Mistakes occur at the time of decision.  We can only make our 
mistake-du-jour award, however, when the foolishness of the 
decision become obvious.  By this measure, 1994 was a vintage year 
with keen competition for the gold medal.  Here, I would like to 
tell you that the mistakes I will describe originated with Charlie. 
But whenever I try to explain things that way, my nose begins to 
grow.

     And the nominees are . . .

     Late in 1993 I sold 10 million shares of Cap Cities at $63; at 
year-end 1994, the price was $85.25.  (The difference is $222.5 
million for those of you who wish to avoid the pain of calculating 
the damage yourself.)  When we purchased the stock at $17.25 in 
1986, I told you that I had previously sold our Cap Cities holdings 
at $4.30 per share during 1978-80, and added that I was at a loss 
to explain my earlier behavior.  Now I've become a repeat offender. 
Maybe it's time to get a guardian appointed.

     Egregious as it is, the Cap Cities decision earns only a 
silver medal.  Top honors go to a mistake I made five years ago 
that fully ripened in 1994:  Our $358 million purchase of USAir 
preferred stock, on which the dividend was suspended in September. 
In the 1990 Annual Report I correctly described this deal as an 
"unforced error," meaning that I was neither pushed into the 
investment nor misled by anyone when making it.  Rather, this was a 
case of sloppy analysis, a lapse that may have been caused by the 
fact that we were buying a senior security or by hubris.  Whatever 
the reason, the mistake was large.

     Before this purchase, I simply failed to focus on the problems 
that would inevitably beset a carrier whose costs were both high 
and extremely difficult to lower.  In earlier years, these life-
threatening costs posed few problems.  Airlines were then protected 
from competition by regulation, and carriers could absorb high 
costs because they could pass them along by way of fares that were 
also high.

     When deregulation came along, it did not immediately change 
the picture:  The capacity of low-cost carriers was so small that 
the high-cost lines could, in large part, maintain their existing 
fare structures.  During this period, with the longer-term problems 
largely invisible but slowly metastasizing, the costs that were 
non-sustainable became further embedded.

     As the seat capacity of the low-cost operators expanded, their 
fares began to force the old-line, high-cost airlines to cut their 
own.  The day of reckoning for these airlines could be delayed by 
infusions of capital (such as ours into USAir), but eventually a 
fundamental rule of economics prevailed:  In an unregulated 
commodity business, a company must lower its costs to competitive 
levels or face extinction.  This principle should have been obvious 
to your Chairman, but I missed it.

     Seth Schofield, CEO of USAir, has worked diligently to correct 
the company's historical cost problems but, to date, has not 
managed to do so.  In part, this is because he has had to deal with 
a moving target, the result of certain major carriers having 
obtained labor concessions and other carriers having benefitted 
from "fresh-start" costs that came out of bankruptcy proceedings.  
(As Herb Kelleher, CEO of Southwest Airlines, has said:  
"Bankruptcy court for airlines has become a health spa.")  
Additionally, it should be no surprise to anyone that those airline 
employees who contractually receive above-market salaries will 
resist any reduction in these as long as their checks continue to 
clear.

     Despite this difficult situation, USAir may yet achieve the 
cost reductions it needs to maintain its viability  long-term.  But 
it is far from sure that will happen.

     Accordingly, we wrote our USAir investment down to $89.5 
million, 25 cents on the dollar at yearend 1994.  This valuation 
reflects both a possibility that our preferred will have its value 
fully or largely restored and an opposite possibility that the 
stock will eventually become worthless.  Whatever the outcome, we 
will heed a prime rule of investing:  You don't have to make it 
back the way that you lost it.

     The accounting effects of our USAir writedown are complicated. 
Under GAAP accounting, insurance companies are required to carry 
all stocks on their balance sheets at estimated market value.  
Therefore, at the end of last year's third quarter, we were 
carrying our USAir preferred at $89.5 million, or 25% of cost.  In 
other words, our net worth was at that time reflecting a value for 
USAir that was far below our $358 million cost.

     But in the fourth quarter, we concluded that the decline in 
value was, in accounting terms, "other than temporary," and that 
judgment required us to send the writedown of $269 million through 
our income statement.  The amount will have no other fourth-quarter 
effect.  That is, it will not reduce our net worth, because the 
diminution of value had already been reflected.

     Charlie and I will not stand for reelection to USAir's board 
at the upcoming annual meeting.  Should Seth wish to consult with 
us, however, we will be pleased to be of any help that we can.

Miscellaneous

     Two CEO's who have done great things for Berkshire 
shareholders retired last year:  Dan Burke of Capital Cities/ABC 
and Carl Reichardt of Wells Fargo.  Dan and Carl encountered very 
tough industry conditions in recent years.  But their skill as 
managers allowed the businesses they ran to emerge from these 
periods with record earnings, added luster, and bright prospects.  
Additionally, Dan and Carl prepared well for their departure and 
left their companies in outstanding hands.  We owe them our 
gratitude.

                    * * * * * * * * * * * *

     About 95.7% of all eligible shares participated in Berkshire's 
1994 shareholder-designated contributions program.  Contributions 
made through the program were $10.4 million and 3,300 charities 
were recipients.

      Every year a few shareholders miss participating in the 
program because they either do not have their shares registered in 
their own names on the prescribed record date or because they fail 
to get the designation form back to us within the 60-day period 
allowed for its return.  Since we don't make exceptions when 
requirements aren't met, we urge that both new shareholders and old 
read the description of our shareholder-designated contributions 
program that appears on pages 50-51.

     To participate in future programs, you must make sure your 
shares are registered in the name of the actual owner, not in the 
nominee name of a broker, bank or depository.  Shares not so 
registered on August 31, 1995 will be ineligible for the 1995 
program.

                     * * * * * * * * * * * *

     We made only one minor acquisition during 1994 - a small 
retail shoe chain - but our interest in finding good candidates 
remains as keen as ever.  The criteria we employ for purchases or 
mergers is detailed in the appendix on page 21.

     Last spring, we offered to merge with a large, family-
controlled business on terms that included a Berkshire convertible 
preferred stock.  Though we failed to reach an agreement, this 
episode made me realize that we needed to ask our shareholders to 
authorize preferred shares in case we wanted in the future to move 
quickly if a similar acquisition opportunity were to appear.  
Accordingly, our proxy presents a proposal that you authorize a 
large amount of preferred stock, which will be issuable on terms 
set by the Board of Directors.  You can be sure that Charlie and I 
will not use these shares without being completely satisfied that 
we are receiving as much in intrinsic value as we are giving.

                     * * * * * * * * * * * *

     Charlie and I hope you can come to the Annual Meeting - at a 
new site.  Last year, we slightly overran the Orpheum Theater's 
seating capacity of 2,750, and therefore we will assemble at 9:30 
a.m. on Monday, May 1, 1995, at the Holiday Convention Centre.  The 
main ballroom at the Centre can handle 3,300, and if need be, we 
will have audio and video equipment in an adjacent room capable of 
handling another 1,000 people.

     Last year we displayed some of Berkshire's products at the 
meeting, and as a result sold about 800 pounds of candy, 507 pairs 
of shoes, and over $12,000 of World Books and related publications. 
All these goods will be available again this year.  Though we like 
to think of the meeting as a spiritual experience, we must remember 
that even the least secular of religions includes the ritual of the 
collection plate.

     Of course, what you really should be purchasing is a video 
tape of the 1995 Orange Bowl.  Your Chairman views this classic 
nightly, switching to slow motion for the fourth quarter.  Our 
cover color this year is a salute to Nebraska's football coach, Tom 
Osborne, and his Cornhuskers, the country's top college team.  I 
urge you to wear Husker red to the annual meeting and promise you 
that at least 50% of your managerial duo will be in appropriate 
attire.

     We recommend that you promptly get hotel reservations for the 
meeting, as we expect a large crowd.  Those of you who like to be 
downtown (about six miles from the Centre) may wish to stay at the 
Radisson Redick Tower, a small (88 rooms) but nice hotel or at the 
much larger Red Lion Hotel a few blocks away.  In the vicinity of 
the Centre are the Holiday Inn (403 rooms), Homewood Suites (118 
rooms) and Hampton Inn (136 rooms).  Another recommended spot is 
the Marriott, whose west Omaha location is about 100 yards from 
Borsheim's and a ten-minute drive from the Centre.  There will be 
buses at the Marriott that will leave at 8:45 and 9:00 for the 
meeting and return after it ends.

     An attachment to our proxy material explains how you can 
obtain the card you will need for admission to the meeting.  A 
good-sized parking area is available at the Centre, while those who 
stay at the Holiday Inn, Homewood Suites and Hampton Inn will be 
able to walk to the meeting.

     As usual, we will have buses to take you to the Nebraska 
Furniture Mart and Borsheim's after the meeting and to take you 
from there to hotels or the airport later.  I hope you make a 
special effort to visit the Nebraska Furniture Mart because it has 
opened the Mega Mart, a true retailing marvel that sells 
electronics, appliances, computers, CD's, cameras and audio 
equipment.  Sales have been sensational since the opening, and you 
will be amazed by both the variety of products available and their 
display on the floor.

     The Mega Mart, adjacent to NFM's main store, is on our 64-acre 
site about two miles north of the Centre.  The stores are open from 
10 a.m. to 9 p.m. on Fridays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Saturdays and 
noon to 6 p.m. on Sundays.  When you're there be sure to say hello 
to Mrs. B, who, at 101, will be hard at work in our Mrs. B's 
Warehouse.  She never misses a day at the store - or, for that 
matter, an hour.

     Borsheim's normally is closed on Sunday but will be open for 
shareholders and their guests from noon to 6 p.m. on Sunday.  This 
is always a special day, and we will try to have a few surprises.  
Usually this is the biggest sales day of the year, so for more 
reasons than one Charlie and I hope to see you there.

     On Saturday evening, April 29, there will be a baseball game 
at Rosenblatt Stadium between the Omaha Royals and the Buffalo 
Bisons.  The Buffalo team is owned by my friends, Mindy and Bob 
Rich, Jr., and I'm hoping they will attend.  If so, I will try to 
entice Bob into a one-pitch duel on the mound.  Bob is a 
capitalist's Randy Johnson - young, strong and athletic - and not 
the sort of fellow you want to face early in the season.  So I will 
need plenty of vocal support.

     The proxy statement will include information about obtaining 
tickets to the game.  About 1,400 shareholders attended the event 
last year.  Opening the game that night, I had my stuff and threw a 
strike that the scoreboard reported at eight miles per hour.  What 
many fans missed was that I shook off the catcher's call for my 
fast ball and instead delivered my change-up.  This year it will be 
all smoke.  



                                            Warren E. Buffett
March 7, 1995                               Chairman of the Board








Chairman's Letter - 1995



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.



To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:


     Our gain in net worth during 1995 was $5.3 billion, or 
45.0%.  Per-share book value grew by a little less, 43.1%, 
because we paid stock for two acquisitions, increasing our shares 
outstanding by 1.3%.  Over the last 31 years (that is, since 
present management took over) per-share book value has grown from 
$19 to $14,426, or at a rate of 23.6% compounded annually.

     There's no reason to do handsprings over 1995's gains.  This 
was a year in which any fool could make a bundle in the stock 
market.  And we did.  To paraphrase President Kennedy, a rising 
tide lifts all yachts.

     Putting aside the financial results, there was plenty of 
good news at Berkshire last year:  We negotiated three 
acquisitions of exactly the type we desire.  Two of these, 
Helzberg's Diamond Shops and R.C. Willey Home Furnishings, are 
included in our 1995 financial statements, while our largest 
transaction, the purchase of GEICO, closed immediately after the 
end of the year.  (I'll tell you more about all three 
acquisitions later in the report.)

     These new subsidiaries roughly double our revenues.  Even 
so, the acquisitions neither materially increased our shares 
outstanding nor our debt.  And, though these three operations 
employ over 11,000 people, our headquarters staff grew only from 
11 to 12.  (No sense going crazy.)

     Charlie Munger, Berkshire's Vice Chairman and my partner, 
and I want to build a collection of companies - both wholly- and 
partly-owned - that have excellent economic characteristics and 
that are run by outstanding managers.  Our favorite acquisition 
is the negotiated transaction that allows us to purchase 100% of 
such a business at a fair price.  But we are almost as happy when 
the stock market offers us the chance to buy a modest percentage 
of an outstanding business at a pro-rata price well below what it 
would take to buy 100%.  This double-barrelled approach - 
purchases of entire businesses through negotiation or purchases 
of part-interests through the stock market - gives us an 
important advantage over capital-allocators who stick to a single 
course.  Woody Allen once explained why eclecticism works:  "The 
real advantage of being bisexual is that it doubles your chances 
for a date on Saturday night."

     Over the years, we've been Woody-like in our thinking, 
attempting to increase our marketable investments in wonderful 
businesses, while simultaneously trying to buy similar businesses 
in their entirety.  The following table illustrates our progress 
on both fronts.  In the tabulation, we show the marketable 
securities owned per share of Berkshire at ten-year intervals.  A 
second column lists our per-share operating earnings (before 
taxes and purchase-price adjustments but after interest and 
corporate overhead) from all other activities.  In other words, 
the second column shows what we earned excluding the dividends, 
interest and capital gains that we realized from investments.  
Purchase-price accounting adjustments are ignored for reasons we 
have explained at length in previous reports and which, as an act 
of mercy, we won't repeat.  (We'll be glad to send masochists the 
earlier explanations, however.)

                                               Pre-tax Earnings Per Share
                       Marketable Securities   Excluding All Income from
  Year                       Per Share                Investments       
  ----                 ---------------------   --------------------------

  1965 ................       $      4                  $  4.08 
  1975 ................            159                    (6.48)
  1985 ................          2,443                    18.86 
  1995 ................         22,088                   258.20 

  Yearly Growth Rate: 1965-95    33.4%                    14.7% 

     These results have not sprung from some master plan that we 
concocted in 1965.  In a general way, we knew then what we hoped 
to accomplish but had no idea what specific opportunities might 
make it possible.  Today we remain similarly unstructured:  Over 
time, we expect to improve the figures in both columns but have 
no road map to tell us how that will come about.

     We proceed with two advantages:  First, our operating 
managers are outstanding and, in most cases, have an unusually 
strong attachment to Berkshire.  Second, Charlie and I have had 
considerable experience in allocating capital and try to go at 
that job rationally and objectively.  The giant disadvantage we 
face is size:  In the early years, we needed only good ideas, but 
now we need good big ideas.  Unfortunately, the difficulty of 
finding these grows in direct proportion to our financial 
success, a problem that increasingly erodes our strengths.

     I will have more to say about Berkshire's prospects later in 
this report, when I discuss our proposed recapitalization.

Acquisitions  

     It may seem strange that we exult over a year in which we 
made three acquisitions, given that we have regularly used these 
pages to question the acquisition activities of most managers.  
Rest assured, Charlie and I haven't lost our skepticism:  We 
believe most deals do damage to the shareholders of the acquiring 
company.  Too often, the words from HMS Pinafore apply:  "Things 
are seldom what they seem, skim milk masquerades as cream."  
Specifically, sellers and their representatives invariably 
present financial projections having more entertainment value 
than educational value.  In the production of rosy scenarios, 
Wall Street can hold its own against Washington.

     In any case, why potential buyers even look at projections 
prepared by sellers baffles me.  Charlie and I never give them a 
glance, but instead keep in mind the story of the man with an 
ailing horse.  Visiting the vet, he said:  "Can you help me?  
Sometimes my horse walks just fine and sometimes he limps."  The 
vet's reply was pointed:  "No problem - when he's walking fine, 
sell him."  In the world of mergers and acquisitions, that horse 
would be peddled as Secretariat.

     At Berkshire, we have all the difficulties in perceiving the 
future that other acquisition-minded companies do.  Like they 
also, we face the inherent problem that the seller of a business 
practically always knows far more about it than the buyer and 
also picks the time of sale - a time when the business is likely 
to be walking "just fine."

     Even so, we do have a few advantages, perhaps the greatest 
being that we don't have a strategic plan.  Thus we feel no need 
to proceed in an ordained direction (a course leading almost 
invariably to silly purchase prices) but can instead simply 
decide what makes sense for our owners.  In doing that, we always 
mentally compare any move we are contemplating with dozens of 
other opportunities open to us, including the purchase of small 
pieces of the best businesses in the world via the stock market. 
Our practice of making this comparison - acquisitions against 
passive investments - is a discipline that managers focused 
simply on expansion seldom use.

     Talking to Time Magazine a few years back, Peter Drucker got 
to the heart of things:  "I will tell you a secret: Dealmaking 
beats working.  Dealmaking is exciting and fun, and working is 
grubby.  Running anything is primarily an enormous amount of 
grubby detail work . . . dealmaking is romantic, sexy.  That's 
why you have deals that make no sense."

     In making acquisitions, we have a further advantage:  As 
payment, we can offer sellers a stock backed by an extraordinary 
collection of outstanding businesses.  An individual or a family 
wishing to dispose of a single fine business, but also wishing to 
defer personal taxes indefinitely, is apt to find Berkshire stock 
a particularly comfortable holding.  I believe, in fact, that 
this calculus played an important part in the two acquisitions 
for which we paid shares in 1995.

     Beyond that, sellers sometimes care about placing their 
companies in a corporate home that will both endure and provide 
pleasant, productive working conditions for their managers.  Here 
again, Berkshire offers something special.  Our managers operate 
with extraordinary autonomy.  Additionally, our ownership 
structure enables sellers to know that when I say we are buying 
to keep, the promise means something.  For our part, we like 
dealing with owners who care what happens to their companies and 
people.  A buyer is likely to find fewer unpleasant surprises 
dealing with that type of seller than with one simply auctioning 
off his business.

     In addition to the foregoing being an explanation of our 
acquisition style, it is, of course, a not-so-subtle sales pitch. 
If you own or represent a business earning $25 million or more 
before tax, and it fits the criteria listed on page 23, just 
give me a call.  Our discussion will be confidential.  And if you 
aren't interested now, file our proposition in the back of your 
mind:  We are never going to lose our appetite for buying 
companies with good economics and excellent management.

     Concluding this little dissertation on acquisitions, I can't 
resist repeating a tale told me last year by a corporate 
executive.  The business he grew up in was a fine one, with a 
long-time record of leadership in its industry.  Its main 
product, however, was distressingly glamorless.  So several 
decades ago, the company hired a management consultant who - 
naturally - advised diversification, the then-current fad.  
("Focus" was not yet in style.)  Before long, the company 
acquired a number of businesses, each after the consulting firm 
had gone through a long - and expensive - acquisition study.  And 
the outcome?  Said the executive sadly, "When we started, we were 
getting 100% of our earnings from the original business.  After 
ten years, we were getting 150%."

Helzberg's Diamond Shops

     A few years back, management consultants popularized a 
technique called "management by walking around" (MBWA).  At 
Berkshire, we've instituted ABWA (acquisitions by walking 
around).

     In May 1994, a week or so after the Annual Meeting, I was 
crossing the street at 58th and Fifth Avenue in New York, when a 
woman called out my name.  I listened as she told me she'd been 
to, and had enjoyed, the Annual Meeting.  A few seconds later, a 
man who'd heard the woman stop me did so as well.  He turned out 
to be Barnett Helzberg, Jr., who owned four shares of Berkshire 
and had also been at our meeting.

     In our few minutes of conversation, Barnett said he had a 
business we might be interested in.  When people say that, it 
usually turns out they have a lemonade stand - with potential, of 
course, to quickly grow into the next Microsoft.  So I simply 
asked Barnett to send me particulars.  That, I thought to myself. 
will be the end of that.

     Not long after, Barnett sent me the financial statements of 
Helzberg's Diamond Shops.  The company had been started by his 
grandfather in 1915 from a single store in Kansas City and had 
developed by the time we met into a group with 134 stores in 23 
states.  Sales had grown from $10 million in 1974 to $53 million 
in 1984 and $282 million in 1994.  We weren't talking lemonade 
stands.

     Barnett, then 60, loved the business but also wanted to feel 
free of it.  In 1988, as a step in that direction, he had brought 
in Jeff Comment, formerly President of Wanamaker's, to help him 
run things.  The hiring of Jeff turned out to be a homerun, but 
Barnett still found that he couldn't shake a feeling of ultimate 
responsibility.  Additionally, he owned a valuable asset that was 
subject to the vagaries of a single, very competitive industry, 
and he thought it prudent to diversify his family's holdings.

     Berkshire was made to order for him.  It took us awhile to 
get together on price, but there was never any question in my 
mind that, first, Helzberg's was the kind of business that we 
wanted to own and, second, Jeff was our kind of manager.  In 
fact, we would not have bought the business if Jeff had not been 
there to run it.  Buying a retailer without good management is 
like buying the Eiffel Tower without an elevator.

     We completed the Helzberg purchase in 1995 by means of a 
tax-free exchange of stock, the only kind of transaction that 
interested Barnett.  Though he was certainly under no obligation 
to do so, Barnett shared a meaningful part of his proceeds from 
the sale with a large number of his associates.  When someone 
behaves that generously, you know you are going to be treated 
right as a buyer.

     The average Helzberg's store has annual sales of about $2 
million, far more than competitors operating similarly-sized 
stores achieve.  This superior per-store productivity is the key 
to Helzberg's excellent profits.  If the company continues its 
first-rate performance - and we believe it will - it could grow 
rather quickly to several times its present size.

     Helzberg's, it should be added, is an entirely different 
sort of operation from Borsheim's, our Omaha jewelry business, 
and the two companies will operate independently of each other.  
Borsheim's had an excellent year in 1995, with sales up 11.7%.  
Susan Jacques, its 36-year-old CEO, had an even better year, 
giving birth to her second son at the start of the Christmas 
season.  Susan has proved to be a terrific leader in the two 
years since her promotion.

R.C. Willey Home Furnishings  

     It was Nebraska Furniture Mart's Irv Blumkin who did the 
walking around in the case of R.C. Willey, long the leading home 
furnishings business in Utah.  Over the years, Irv had told me 
about the strengths of that company.  And he had also told Bill 
Child, CEO of R.C. Willey, how pleased the Blumkin family had 
been with its Berkshire relationship.  So in early 1995, Bill 
mentioned to Irv that for estate tax and diversification reasons, 
he and the other owners of R.C. Willey might be interested in 
selling.

     From that point forward, things could not have been simpler. 
Bill sent me some figures, and I wrote him a letter indicating 
my idea of value.  We quickly agreed on a number, and found our 
personal chemistry to be perfect.  By mid-year, the merger was 
completed.

     R.C. Willey is an amazing story.  Bill took over the 
business from his father-in-law in 1954 when sales were about 
$250,000.  From this tiny base, Bill employed Mae West's 
philosophy:  "It's not what you've got - it's what you do with 
what you've got."  Aided by his brother, Sheldon, Bill has built 
the company to its 1995 sales volume of $257 million, and it now 
accounts for over 50% of the furniture business in Utah.  Like 
Nebraska Furniture Mart, R.C. Willey sells appliances, 
electronics, computers and carpets in addition to furniture.  
Both companies have about the same sales volume, but NFM gets all 
of its business from one complex in Omaha, whereas R.C. Willey 
will open its sixth major store in the next few months.

     Retailing is a tough business.  During my investment career, 
I have watched a large number of retailers enjoy terrific growth 
and superb returns on equity for a period, and then suddenly 
nosedive, often all the way into bankruptcy.  This shooting-star 
phenomenon is far more common in retailing than it is in 
manufacturing or service businesses.  In part, this is because a 
retailer must stay smart, day after day.  Your competitor is 
always copying and then topping whatever you do.  Shoppers are 
meanwhile beckoned in every conceivable way to try a stream of 
new merchants.  In retailing, to coast is to fail.

     In contrast to this have-to-be-smart-every-day business, 
there is what I call the have-to-be-smart-once business.  For 
example, if you were smart enough to buy a network TV station 
very early in the game, you could put in a shiftless and backward 
nephew to run things, and the business would still do well for 
decades.  You'd do far better, of course, if you put in Tom 
Murphy, but you could stay comfortably in the black without him. 
For a retailer, hiring that nephew would be an express ticket to 
bankruptcy.

     The two retailing businesses we purchased this year are 
blessed with terrific managers who love to compete and have done 
so successfully for decades.  Like the CEOs of our other 
operating units, they will operate autonomously:  We want them to 
feel that the businesses they run are theirs.  This means no 
second-guessing by Charlie and me.  We avoid the attitude of the 
alumnus whose message to the football coach is "I'm 100% with you 
- win or tie."  Our basic goal as an owner is to behave with our 
managers as we like our owners to behave with us.

     As we add more operations, I'm sometimes asked how many 
people I can handle reporting to me.  My answer to that is 
simple:  If I have one person reporting to me and he is a lemon, 
that's one too many, and if I have managers like those we now 
have, the number can be almost unlimited.  We are lucky to have 
Bill and Sheldon associated with us, and we hope that we can 
acquire other businesses that bring with them managers of similar 
caliber.

GEICO Corporation

     Right after yearend, we completed the purchase of 100% of 
GEICO, the seventh largest auto insurer in the United States, 
with about 3.7 million cars insured.  I've had a 45-year 
association with GEICO, and though the story has been told 
before, it's worth a short recap here.

     I attended Columbia University's business school in 1950-51, 
not because I cared about the degree it offered, but because I 
wanted to study under Ben Graham, then teaching there.  The time 
I spent in Ben's classes was a personal high, and quickly induced 
me to learn all I could about my hero.  I turned first to Who's 
Who in America, finding there, among other things, that Ben was 
Chairman of Government Employees Insurance Company, to me an 
unknown company in an unfamiliar industry.

     A librarian next referred me to Best's Fire and Casualty 
insurance manual, where I learned that GEICO was based in 
Washington, DC.  So on a Saturday in January, 1951, I took the 
train to Washington and headed for GEICO's downtown headquarters. 
To my dismay, the building was closed, but I pounded on the door 
until a custodian appeared.  I asked this puzzled fellow if there 
was anyone in the office I could talk to, and he said he'd seen 
one man working on the sixth floor.

     And thus I met Lorimer Davidson, Assistant to the President, 
who was later to become CEO.  Though my only credentials were 
that I was a student of Graham's, "Davy" graciously spent four 
hours or so showering me with both kindness and instruction.  No 
one has ever received a better half-day course in how the 
insurance industry functions nor in the factors that enable one 
company to excel over others.  As Davy made clear, GEICO's method 
of selling - direct marketing - gave it an enormous cost 
advantage over competitors that sold through agents, a form of 
distribution so ingrained in the business of these insurers that 
it was impossible for them to give it up.  After my session with 
Davy, I was more excited about GEICO than I have ever been about 
a stock.

     When I finished at Columbia some months later and returned 
to Omaha to sell securities, I naturally focused almost 
exclusively on GEICO.  My first sales call - on my Aunt Alice, 
who always supported me 100% - was successful.  But I was then a 
skinny, unpolished 20-year-old who looked about 17, and my pitch 
usually failed.  Undaunted, I wrote a short report late in 1951 
about GEICO for "The Security I Like Best" column in The 
Commercial and Financial Chronicle, a leading financial 
publication of the time.  More important, I bought stock for my 
own account.

     You may think this odd, but I have kept copies of every tax 
return I filed, starting with the return for 1944.  Checking 
back, I find that I purchased GEICO shares on four occasions 
during 1951, the last purchase being made on September 26.  This 
pattern of persistence suggests to me that my tendency toward 
self-intoxication was developed early.  I probably came back on 
that September day from unsuccessfully trying to sell some 
prospect and decided - despite my already having more than 50% of 
my net worth in GEICO - to load up further.  In any event, I 
accumulated 350 shares of GEICO during the year, at a cost of 
$10,282.  At yearend, this holding was worth $13,125, more than 
65% of my net worth.

     You can see why GEICO was my first business love.  Furthermore, 
just to complete this stroll down memory lane, I should add 
that I earned most of the funds I used to buy GEICO shares by 
delivering The Washington Post, the chief product of a 
company that much later made it possible for Berkshire to turn 
$10 million into $500 million.

     Alas, I sold my entire GEICO position in 1952 for $15,259, 
primarily to switch into Western Insurance Securities.  This act 
of infidelity can partially be excused by the fact that Western 
was selling for slightly more than one times its current earnings, 
a p/e ratio that for some reason caught my eye.  But in the next 
20 years, the GEICO stock I sold grew in value to about $1.3 
million, which taught me a lesson about the inadvisability of 
selling a stake in an identifiably-wonderful company.

     In the early 1970's, after Davy retired, the executives 
running GEICO made some serious errors in estimating their claims 
costs, a mistake that led the company to underprice its policies 
- and that almost caused it to go bankrupt.  The company was 
saved only because Jack Byrne came in as CEO in 1976 and took 
drastic remedial measures.

     Because I believed both in Jack and in GEICO's fundamental 
competitive strength, Berkshire purchased a large interest in the 
company during the second half of 1976, and also made smaller 
purchases later.  By yearend 1980, we had put $45.7 million into 
GEICO and owned 33.3% of its shares.  During the next 15 years, 
we did not make further purchases.  Our interest in the company, 
nonetheless, grew to about 50% because it was a big repurchaser 
of its own shares.

     Then, in 1995, we agreed to pay $2.3 billion for the half of 
the company we didn't own.  That is a steep price.  But it gives 
us full ownership of a growing enterprise whose business remains 
exceptional for precisely the same reasons that prevailed in 
1951.  In addition, GEICO has two extraordinary managers:  Tony 
Nicely, who runs the insurance side of the operation, and Lou 
Simpson, who runs investments.

     Tony, 52, has been with GEICO for 34 years.  There's no one 
I would rather have managing GEICO's insurance operation.  He has 
brains, energy, integrity and focus.  If we're lucky, he'll stay 
another 34 years.

     Lou runs investments just as ably.  Between 1980 and 1995, 
the equities under Lou's management returned an average of 22.8% 
annually vs. 15.7% for the S&P.  Lou takes the same conservative, 
concentrated approach to investments that we do at Berkshire, and 
it is an enormous plus for us to have him on board.  One point 
that goes beyond Lou's GEICO work:  His presence on the scene 
assures us that Berkshire would have an extraordinary 
professional immediately available to handle its investments if 
something were to happen to Charlie and me.

     GEICO, of course, must continue both to attract good 
policyholders and keep them happy.  It must also reserve and 
price properly.  But the ultimate key to the company's success is 
its rock-bottom operating costs, which virtually no competitor 
can match.  In 1995, moreover, Tony and his management team 
pushed underwriting and loss adjustment expenses down further to 
23.6% of premiums, nearly one percentage point below 1994's 
ratio.  In business, I look for economic castles protected by 
unbreachable "moats."  Thanks to Tony and his management team, 
GEICO's moat widened in 1995.

     Finally, let me bring you up to date on Davy.  He's now 93 
and remains my friend and teacher.  He continues to pay close 
attention to GEICO and has always been there when the company's 
CEOs - Jack Byrne, Bill Snyder and Tony - have needed him.  Our 
acquisition of 100% of GEICO caused Davy to incur a large tax.  
Characteristically, he still warmly supported the transaction.

     Davy has been one of my heroes for the 45 years I've known 
him, and he's never let me down.  You should understand that 
Berkshire would not be where it is today if Davy had not been so 
generous with his time on a cold Saturday in 1951.  I've often 
thanked him privately, but it is fitting that I use this report 
to thank him on behalf of Berkshire's shareholders.

Insurance Operations

     In addition to acquiring GEICO, we enjoyed other favorable 
developments in insurance during 1995.

     As we've explained in past reports, what counts in our 
insurance business is, first, the amount of "float" we generate 
and, second, its cost to us.  Float is money we hold but don't 
own.  In an insurance operation, float arises because most 
policies require that premiums be prepaid and, more importantly, 
because it usually takes time for an insurer to hear about and 
resolve loss claims.

     Typically, the premiums that an insurer takes in do not 
cover the losses and expenses it must pay.  That leaves it 
running an "underwriting loss" - and that loss is the cost of 
float.  An insurance business is profitable over time if its cost 
of float is less than the cost the company would otherwise incur 
to obtain funds.  But the business has a negative value if the 
cost of its float is higher than market rates for money.

     As the numbers in the following table show, Berkshire's 
insurance business has been a huge winner.  For the table, we 
have calculated our float -  which we generate in exceptional 
amounts relative to our premium volume - by adding loss reserves, 
loss adjustment reserves, funds held under reinsurance assumed 
and unearned premium reserves, and then subtracting agents' 
balances, prepaid acquisition costs, prepaid taxes and deferred 
charges applicable to assumed reinsurance.  Our cost of float is 
determined by our underwriting loss or profit.  In those years 
when we have had an underwriting profit, such as the last three, 
our cost of float has been negative, which means we have 
calculated our insurance earnings by adding underwriting profit 
to float income.

               (1)             (2)                          Yearend Yield
           Underwriting                     Approximate      on Long-Term
               Loss       Average Float    Cost of Funds     Govt. Bonds 
           ------------   -------------   ---------------   -------------	
                 (In $ Millions)         (Ratio of 1 to 2)

1967 ......   profit           17.3        less than zero       5.50%
1968 ......   profit           19.9        less than zero       5.90%
1969 ......   profit           23.4        less than zero       6.79%
1970 ......     0.37           32.4                 1.14%       6.25%
1971 ......   profit           52.5        less than zero       5.81%
1972 ......   profit           69.5        less than zero       5.82%
1973 ......   profit           73.3        less than zero       7.27%
1974 ......     7.36           79.1                 9.30%       8.13%
1975 ......    11.35           87.6                12.96%       8.03%
1976 ......   profit          102.6        less than zero       7.30%
1977 ......   profit          139.0        less than zero       7.97%
1978 ......   profit          190.4        less than zero       8.93%
1979 ......   profit          227.3        less than zero      10.08%
1980 ......   profit          237.0        less than zero      11.94%
1981 ......   profit          228.4        less than zero      13.61%
1982 ......    21.56          220.6                 9.77%      10.64%
1983 ......    33.87          231.3                14.64%      11.84%
1984 ......    48.06          253.2                18.98%      11.58%
1985 ......    44.23          390.2                11.34%       9.34%
1986 ......    55.84          797.5                 7.00%       7.60%
1987 ......    55.43        1,266.7                 4.38%       8.95%
1988 ......    11.08        1,497.7                 0.74%       9.00%
1989 ......    24.40        1,541.3                 1.58%       7.97%
1990 ......    26.65        1,637.3                 1.63%       8.24%
1991 ......   119.59        1,895.0                 6.31%       7.40%
1992 ......   108.96        2,290.4                 4.76%       7.39%
1993 ......   profit        2,624.7        less than zero       6.35%
1994 ......   profit        3,056.6        less than zero       7.88%
1995 ......   profit        3,607.2        less than zero       5.95%

     Since 1967, when we entered the insurance business, our float 
has grown at an annual compounded rate of 20.7%.  In more years 
than not, our cost of funds has been less than nothing.  This 
access to "free" money has boosted Berkshire's performance in a 
major way.

     Any company's level of profitability is determined by three 
items:  (1) what its assets earn; (2) what its liabilities cost; 
and (3) its utilization of "leverage" - that is, the degree to 
which its assets are funded by liabilities rather than by equity.  
Over the years, we have done well on Point 1, having produced high 
returns on our assets.  But we have also benefitted greatly - to a 
degree that is not generally well-understood - because our 
liabilities have cost us very little.  An important reason for this 
low cost is that we have obtained float on very advantageous terms. 
The same cannot be said by many other property and casualty 
insurers, who may generate plenty of float, but at a cost that 
exceeds what the funds are worth to them.  In those circumstances, 
leverage becomes a disadvantage.

     Since our float has cost us virtually nothing over the years, 
it has in effect served as equity.  Of course, it differs from true 
equity in that it doesn't belong to us.  Nevertheless, let's assume 
that instead of our having $3.4 billion of float at the end of 
1994, we had replaced it with $3.4 billion of equity.  Under this 
scenario, we would have owned no more assets than we did during 
1995.  We would, however, have had somewhat lower earnings because 
the cost of float was negative last year.  That is, our float threw 
off profits.  And, of course, to obtain the replacement equity, we 
would have needed to sell many new shares of Berkshire.  The net 
result - more shares, equal assets and lower earnings - would have 
materially reduced the value of our stock.  So you can understand 
why float wonderfully benefits a business - if it is obtained at a 
low cost.

     Our acquisition of GEICO will immediately increase our float 
by nearly $3 billion, with additional growth almost certain.  We 
also expect GEICO to operate at a decent underwriting profit in 
most years, a fact that will increase the probability that our 
total float will cost us nothing.  Of course, we paid a very 
substantial price for the GEICO float, whereas virtually all of the 
gains in float depicted in the table were developed internally.

     Our enthusiasm over 1995's insurance results must be tempered 
once again because we had our third straight year of good fortune 
in the super-cat business.  In this operation, we sell policies 
that insurance and reinsurance companies buy to protect themselves 
from the effects of mega-catastrophes.  Since truly major 
catastrophes occur infrequently, our super-cat business can be 
expected to show large profits in most years but occasionally to 
record a huge loss.  In other words, the attractiveness of our 
super-cat business will take many years to measure.  We know that 
the results of years like the past three will be at least partially 
offset by some truly terrible year in the future.  We just hope 
that "partially" turns out to be the proper adverb.

     There were plenty of catastrophes last year, but no super-cats 
of the insured variety.  The Southeast had a close call when Opal, 
sporting winds of 150 miles per hour, hovered off Florida.  
However, the storm abated before hitting land, and so a second 
Andrew was dodged.  For insurers, the Kobe earthquake was another 
close call:  The economic damage was huge - perhaps even a record - 
but only a tiny portion of it was insured.  The insurance industry 
won't always be that lucky.

     Ajit Jain is the guiding genius of our super-cat business and 
writes important non-cat business as well. In insurance, the term 
"catastrophe" is applied to an event, such as a hurricane or 
earthquake, that causes a great many insured losses. The other 
deals Ajit enters into usually cover only a single large loss. A 
simplified description of three transactions from last year will 
illustrate both what I mean and Ajit's versatility. We insured: (1) 
The life of Mike Tyson for a sum that is large initially and that, 
fight-by-fight, gradually declines to zero over the next few years; 
(2) Lloyd's against more than 225 of its "names" dying during the 
year; and (3) The launch, and a year of orbit, of two Chinese 
satellites. Happily, both satellites are orbiting, the Lloyd's folk 
avoided abnormal mortality, and if Mike Tyson looked any healthier, 
no one would get in the ring with him.

     Berkshire is sought out for many kinds of insurance, both 
super-cat and large single-risk, because: (1) our financial 
strength is unmatched, and insureds know we can and will pay our 
losses under the most adverse of circumstances; (2) we can supply a 
quote faster than anyone in the business; and (3) we will issue 
policies with limits larger than anyone else is prepared to write. 
Most of our competitors have extensive reinsurance treaties and 
lay off much of their business.  While this helps them avoid shock 
losses, it also hurts their flexibility and reaction time.  As you 
know, Berkshire moves quickly to seize investment and acquisition 
opportunities; in insurance we respond with the same exceptional 
speed.  In another important point, large coverages don't frighten 
us but, on the contrary, intensify our interest.  We have offered a 
policy under which we could have lost $1 billion; the largest 
coverage that a client accepted was $400 million.

     We will get hit from time to time with large losses.  Charlie 
and I, however, are quite willing to accept relatively volatile 
results in exchange for better long-term earnings than we would 
otherwise have had.  In other words, we prefer a lumpy 15% to a 
smooth 12%.  Since most managers opt for smoothness, we are left 
with a competitive advantage that we try to maximize.  We do, 
though, monitor our aggregate exposure in order to keep our "worst 
case" at a level that leaves us comfortable.

     Indeed, our worst case from a "once-in-a-century" super-cat is 
far less severe - relative to net worth - than that faced by many 
well-known primary companies writing great numbers of property 
policies.  These insurers don't issue single huge-limit policies as 
we do, but their small policies, in aggregate, can create a risk of 
staggering size.  The "big one" would blow right through the 
reinsurance covers of some of these insurers, exposing them to 
uncapped losses that could threaten their survival.  In our case, 
losses would be large, but capped at levels we could easily handle.

     Prices are weakening in the super-cat field.  That is 
understandable considering the influx of capital into the 
reinsurance business a few years ago and the natural desire of 
those holding the capital to employ it.  No matter what others may 
do, we will not knowingly write business at inadequate rates.  We 
unwittingly did this in the early 1970's and, after more than 20 
years, regularly receive significant bills stemming from the 
mistakes of that era.  My guess is that we will still be getting 
surprises from that business 20 years from now.  A bad reinsurance 
contract is like hell:  easy to enter and impossible to exit.

     I actively participated in those early reinsurance decisions, 
and Berkshire paid a heavy tuition for my education in the 
business.  Unfortunately, reinsurance students can't attend school 
on scholarship.  GEICO, incidentally, suffered a similar, 
disastrous experience in the early 1980's, when it plunged 
enthusiastically into the writing of reinsurance and large risks.  
GEICO's folly was brief, but it will be cleaning things up for at 
least another decade.  The well-publicized problems at Lloyd's 
further illustrate the perils of reinsurance and also underscore 
how vital it is that the interests of the people who write 
insurance business be aligned - on the downside as well as the 
upside - with those of the people putting up the capital.  When 
that kind of symmetry is missing, insurers almost invariably run 
into trouble, though its existence may remain hidden for some time.

     A small, apocryphal story about an insurance CEO who was 
visited by an analyst tells a lot about this industry.  To the 
analyst's questions about his business, the CEO had nothing but 
gloomy answers:  Rates were ridiculously low; the reserves on his 
balance sheet weren't adequate for ordinary claims, much less those 
likely to arise from asbestos and environmental problems; most of 
his reinsurers had long since gone broke, leaving him holding the 
sack.  But then the CEO brightened:  "Still, things could be a lot 
worse," he said.  "It could be my money."  At Berkshire, it's our 
money.

     Berkshire's other insurance operations, though relatively 
small, performed magnificently in 1995.  National Indemnity's 
traditional business had a combined ratio of 84.2 and developed, as 
usual, a large amount of float compared to premium volume.  Over 
the last three years, this segment of our business, run by Don 
Wurster, has had an average combined ratio of 85.6.  Our homestate 
operation, managed by Rod Eldred, grew at a good rate in 1995 and 
achieved a combined ratio of 81.4.  Its three-year combined ratio 
is an amazing 82.4.  Berkshire's California workers' compensation 
business, run by Brad Kinstler, faced fierce price-cutting in 1995 
and lost a great many renewals when we refused to accept inadequate 
rates.  Though this operation's volume dropped materially, it 
produced an excellent underwriting profit.  Finally, John Kizer, at 
Central States Indemnity, continues to do an extraordinary job.  
His premium volume was up 23% in 1995, and underwriting profit grew 
by 59%.  Ajit, Don, Rod, Brad and John are all under 45, an 
embarrassing fact demolishing my theory that managers only hit 
their stride after they reach 70.

     To sum up, we entered 1995 with an exceptional insurance 
operation of moderate size.  By adding GEICO, we entered 1996 with 
a business still better in quality, much improved in its growth 
prospects, and doubled in size.  More than ever, insurance is our 
core strength.

Sources of Reported Earnings

     The table below shows the main sources of Berkshire's reported 
earnings.  In this presentation, purchase-premium charges are not 
assigned to the specific businesses to which they apply, but are 
instead aggregated and shown separately.  This procedure lets you 
view the earnings of our businesses as they would have been 
reported had we not purchased them.  This form of presentation 
seems to us to be more useful to investors and managers than one 
utilizing GAAP, which requires purchase-premiums to be charged off, 
business-by-business.  The total earnings we show in the table are, 
of course, identical to the GAAP total in our audited financial 
statements.

                                             (in millions)
                                 ---------------------------------------
                                                       Berkshire's Share  
                                                        of Net Earnings  
                                                       (after taxes and  
                                  Pre-Tax Earnings    minority interests)
                                 ------------------   ------------------
                                   1995      1994       1995      1994 
                                 --------  --------   --------  --------
Operating Earnings:
  Insurance Group:
    Underwriting ............... $   20.5    $129.9    $ 11.3    $ 80.9
    Net Investment Income ......    501.6     419.4     417.7     350.5 
  Buffalo News .................     46.8      54.2      27.3      31.7 
  Fechheimer ...................     16.9      14.3       8.8       7.1 
  Finance Businesses ...........     20.8      22.1      12.6      14.6 
  Home Furnishings .............     29.7(1)   17.4      16.7(1)    8.7 
  Jewelry ......................     33.9(2)    ---(3)   19.1(2)    ---(3)
  Kirby ........................     50.2      42.3      32.1      27.7 
  Scott Fetzer Manufacturing Group   34.1      39.5      21.2      24.9 	 	 	
  See's Candies ................     50.2      47.5      29.8      28.2 
  Shoe Group ...................     58.4      85.5      37.5      55.8 
  World Book ...................      8.8      24.7       7.0      17.3 
  Purchase-Price Premium Charges    (27.0)    (22.6)    (23.4)    (19.4)	
  Interest Expense(4) ..........    (56.0)    (60.1)    (34.9)    (37.3)
  Shareholder-Designated
      Contributions ............    (11.6)    (10.4)     (7.0)     (6.7)			
  Other ........................     37.4      35.7      24.4      22.3 
                                  --------  --------  --------  -------- 
Operating Earnings .............    814.7     839.4     600.2     606.2 
Sales of Securities ............    194.1      91.3     125.0      61.1 
Decline in Value of 
    USAir Preferred Stock ......     ---     (268.5)     ---     (172.6)
                                 ---------  --------  --------  --------
Total Earnings - All Entities    $1,008.8    $662.2    $725.2    $494.8 
                                 =========  ========  ========  ========

(1) Includes R.C. Willey from June 29, 1995.        
(2) Includes Helzberg's from April 30, 1995.
(3) Jewelry earnings were included in "Other" in 1994.
(4) Excludes interest expense of Finance Businesses.

     A large amount of information about these businesses is given 
on pages 41-52, where you will also find our segment earnings 
reported on a GAAP basis.  In addition, on pages 57-63, we have 
rearranged Berkshire's financial data into four segments on a non-
GAAP basis, a presentation that corresponds to the way Charlie and 
I think about the company.  Our intent is to supply you with the 
financial information that we would wish you to give us if our 
positions were reversed.

     At Berkshire, we believe in Charlie's dictum - "Just tell me 
the bad news; the good news will take care of itself" - and that is 
the behavior we expect of our managers when they are reporting to 
us.  Consequently, I also owe you - Berkshire's owners - a report 
on three operations that, though they continued to earn decent (or 
better) returns on invested capital, experienced a decline in 
earnings last year.  Each encountered a different type of problem.

     Our shoe business operated in an industry that suffered 
depressed earnings throughout last year, and many of our 
competitors made only marginal profits or worse.  That means we at 
least maintained, and in some instances widened, our competitive 
superiority.  So I have no doubt that our shoe operations will 
climb back to top-grade earnings in the future.  In other words, 
though the turn has not yet occurred, we believe you should view 
last year's figures as reflecting a cyclical problem, not a secular 
one.

     The Buffalo News, though still doing very well in comparison 
to other newspapers, is another story.  In this case, industry 
trends are not good.  In the 1991 Annual Report, I explained that 
newspapers had lost a notch in their economic attractiveness from 
the days when they appeared to have a bullet-proof franchise.  
Today, the industry retains its excellent economics, but has lost 
still another notch.  Over time, we expect the competitive strength 
of newspapers to gradually erode, though the industry should 
nevertheless remain a fine business for many years to come.

     Berkshire's most difficult problem is World Book, which 
operates in an industry beset by increasingly tough competition 
from CD-ROM and on-line offerings.  True, we are still profitable, 
a claim that perhaps no other print encyclopedia can make.  But our 
sales and earnings trends have gone in the wrong direction.  At the 
end of 1995, World Book made major changes in the way it 
distributes its product, stepped up its efforts with electronic 
products and sharply reduced its overhead costs.  It will take time 
for us to evaluate the effects of these initiatives, but we are 
confident they will significantly improve our viability. 

     All of our operations, including those whose earnings fell 
last year, benefit from exceptionally talented and dedicated 
managers.  Were we to have the choice of any other executives now 
working in their industries, there is not one of our managers we 
would replace.

     Many of our managers don't have to work for a living, but 
simply go out and perform every day for the same reason that 
wealthy golfers stay on the tour:  They love both doing what they 
do and doing it well.  To describe them as working may be a 
misnomer - they simply prefer spending much of their time on a 
productive activity at which they excel to spending it on leisure 
activities.  Our job is to provide an environment that will keep 
them feeling this way, and so far we seem to have succeeded:  
Thinking back over the 1965-95 period, I can't recall that a single 
key manager has left Berkshire to join another employer.

Common Stock Investments

     Below we present our common stock investments.  Those with a 
market value of more than $600 million are itemized.
									
                                                           12/31/95
   Shares    Company                                    Cost      Market 
 ----------  -------                                  --------   --------
                                                     (dollars in millions)
 49,456,900  American Express Company .............   $1,392.7   $2,046.3
 20,000,000  Capital Cities/ABC, Inc. .............      345.0    2,467.5
100,000,000  The Coca-Cola Company ................    1,298.9    7,425.0
 12,502,500  Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. 
                ("Freddie Mac") ...................      260.1    1,044.0
 34,250,000  GEICO Corp. ..........................       45.7    2,393.2
 48,000,000  The Gillette Company .................      600.0    2,502.0
  6,791,218  Wells Fargo & Company ................      423.7    1,466.9
             Others ...............................    1,379.0    2,655.4
                                                      --------  ---------
             Total Common Stocks ..................   $5,745.1  $22,000.3
                                                      ========  =========		

     We continue in our Rip Van Winkle mode:  Five of our six top 
positions at yearend 1994 were left untouched during 1995.  The 
sixth was American Express, in which we increased our ownership to 
about 10%.

     In early 1996, two major events affected our holdings:  First, 
our purchase of the GEICO stock we did not already own caused that 
company to be converted into a wholly-owned subsidiary.  Second, we 
exchanged our Cap Cities shares for a combination of cash and 
Disney stock.

     In the Disney merger, Cap Cities shareholders had a choice of 
actions.  If they chose, they could exchange each of their Cap 
Cities shares for one share of Disney stock plus $65.  Or they 
could ask for - though not necessarily get - all cash or all stock, 
with their ultimate allotment of each depending on the choices made 
by other shareholders and certain decisions made by Disney.  For 
our 20 million shares, we sought stock, but do not know, as this 
report goes to press, how much we were allocated.  We are certain, 
however, to receive something over 20 million Disney shares.  We 
have also recently bought Disney stock in the market.

     One more bit of history:  I first became interested in Disney 
in 1966, when its market valuation was less than $90 million, even 
though the company had earned around $21 million pre-tax in 1965 
and was sitting with more cash than debt.  At Disneyland, the $17 
million Pirates of the Caribbean ride would soon open.  Imagine my 
excitement - a company selling at only five times rides!

     Duly impressed, Buffett Partnership Ltd. bought a significant 
amount of Disney stock at a split-adjusted price of 31› per share. 
That decision may appear brilliant, given that the stock now sells 
for $66.  But your Chairman was up to the task of nullifying it:  
In 1967 I sold out at 48› per share.

     Oh well - we're happy to be once again a large owner of a 
business with both unique assets and outstanding management.

Convertible Preferred Stocks

     As many of you will remember, Berkshire made five private 
purchases of convertible preferred stocks during the 1987-91 period 
and the time seems right to discuss their status.  Here are the 
particulars:

                                Dividend    Year of                Market
     Company                      Rate      Purchase     Cost      Value 
     -------                    --------    --------    ------    --------
                                                       (dollars in millions)
					
Champion International Corp. ... 9 1/4%       1989       $300      $388(1)
First Empire State Corp. .......     9%       1991         40       110	
The Gillette Company ........... 8 3/4%       1989        600     2,502(2)
Salomon Inc ....................     9%       1987        700       728(3)
USAir Group, Inc. .............. 9 1/4%       1989        358       215

(1) Proceeds from sale of common we received through conversion in 1995.
(2) 12/31/95 value of common we received through conversion in 1991.
(3) Includes $140 we received in 1995 from partial redemption. 

     In each case we had the option of sticking with these 
preferreds as fixed-income securities or converting them into 
common stock.  Initially, their value to us came primarily from 
their fixed-income characteristics.  The option we had to convert 
was a kicker.

     Our $300 million private purchase of American Express "Percs" 
- described in the 1991 Annual Report - is not included in the 
table because that security was a modified form of common stock 
whose fixed-income characteristics contributed only a minor portion 
of its initial value.  Three years after we bought them, the Percs 
automatically were converted to common stock.  In contrast, the 
five securities in the table were set to become common stocks only 
if we wished them to - a crucial difference.

     When we purchased our convertible securities, I told you that 
we expected to earn after-tax returns from them that "moderately" 
exceeded what we could earn from the medium-term fixed-income 
securities they replaced.  We beat this expectation - but only 
because of the performance of a single issue.  I also told you that 
these securities, as a group, would "not produce the returns we can 
achieve when we find a business with wonderful economic prospects." 
Unfortunately, that prediction was fulfilled.  Finally, I said 
that "under almost any conditions, we expect these preferreds to 
return us our money plus dividends."  That's one I would like to 
have back.  Winston Churchill once said that "eating my words has 
never given me indigestion."  My assertion, however, that it was 
almost impossible for us to lose money on our preferreds has caused 
me some well-deserved heartburn.

     Our best holding has been Gillette, which we told you from the 
start was a superior business.  Ironically, though, this is also 
the purchase in which I made my biggest mistake - of a kind, 
however, never recognized on financial statements.

     We paid $600 million in 1989 for Gillette preferred shares 
that were convertible into 48 million (split-adjusted) common 
shares.  Taking an alternative route with the $600 million, I 
probably could have purchased 60 million shares of common from the 
company.  The market on the common was then about $10.50, and given 
that this would have been a huge private placement carrying 
important restrictions, I probably could have bought the stock at a 
discount of at least 5%.  I can't be sure about this, but it's 
likely that Gillette's management would have been just as happy to 
have Berkshire opt for common.

     But I was far too clever to do that.  Instead, for less than 
two years, we received some extra dividend income (the difference 
between the preferred's yield and that of the common), at which 
point the company - quite properly - called the issue, moving to do 
that as quickly as was possible.  If I had negotiated for common 
rather than preferred, we would have been better off at yearend 
1995 by $625 million, minus the "excess" dividends of about $70 
million.

     In the case of Champion, the ability of the company to call 
our preferred at 115% of cost forced a move out of us last August 
that we would rather have delayed.  In this instance, we converted 
our shares just prior to the pending call and offered them to the 
company at a modest discount.

     Charlie and I have never had a conviction about the paper 
industry - actually, I can't remember ever owning the common stock 
of a paper producer in my 54 years of investing - so our choice in 
August was whether to sell in the market or to the company.  
Champion's management had always been candid and honorable in 
dealing with us and wished to repurchase common shares, so we 
offered our stock to the company.  Our Champion capital gain was 
moderate - about 19% after tax from a six-year investment - but the 
preferred delivered us a good after-tax dividend yield throughout 
our holding period.  (That said, many press accounts have 
overstated the after-tax yields earned by property-casualty 
insurance companies on dividends paid to them.  What the press has 
failed to take into account is a change in the tax law that took 
effect in 1987 and that significantly reduced the dividends 
received credit applicable to insurers.  For details, see our 1986 
Annual Report.)

     Our First Empire preferred will be called on March 31, 1996, 
the earliest date allowable.  We are comfortable owning stock in 
well-run banks, and we will convert and keep our First Empire 
common shares.  Bob Wilmers, CEO of the company, is an outstanding 
banker, and we love being associated with him.

     Our other two preferreds have been disappointing, though the 
Salomon preferred has modestly outperformed the fixed-income 
securities for which it was a substitute.  However, the amount of 
management time Charlie and I have devoted to this holding has been 
vastly greater than its economic significance to Berkshire.  
Certainly I never dreamed I would take a new job at age 60 - 
Salomon interim chairman, that is - because of an earlier purchase 
of a fixed-income security.

     Soon after our purchase of the Salomon preferred in 1987, I 
wrote that I had "no special insights regarding the direction or 
future profitability of investment banking."  Even the most 
charitable commentator would conclude that I have since proved my 
point.

     To date, our option to convert into Salomon common has not 
proven of value.  Furthermore, the Dow Industrials have doubled 
since I committed to buy the preferred, and the brokerage group has 
performed equally as well.  That means my decision to go with 
Salomon because I saw value in the conversion option must be graded 
as very poor.  Even so, the preferred has continued under some 
trying conditions to deliver as a fixed-income security, and the 
9% dividend is currently quite attractive.

     Unless the preferred is converted, its terms require 
redemption of 20% of the issue on October 31 of each year, 1995-99, 
and $140 million of our original $700 million was taken on schedule 
last year.  (Some press reports labeled this a sale, but a senior 
security that matures is not "sold.")  Though we did not elect to 
convert the preferred that matured last year, we have four more 
bites at the conversion apple, and I believe it quite likely that 
we will yet find value in our right to convert.

     I discussed the USAir investment at length in last year's 
report.  The company's results improved in 1995, but it still faces 
significant problems.  On the plus side for us is the fact that our 
preferred is structurally well-designed:  For example, though we 
have not been paid dividends since June 1994, the amounts owed us 
are compounding at 5% over the prime rate.  On the minus side is 
the fact that we are dealing with a weak credit.

     We feel much better about our USAir preferred than we did a 
year ago, but your guess is as good as mine as to its ultimate 
value.  (Indeed, considering my record with this investment, it's 
fair to say that your guess may be better than mine.)  At yearend 
we carried our preferred (in which there is no public market) at 
60% of par, though USAir also has outstanding a junior preferred 
that is significantly inferior to ours in all respects except 
conversion price and that was then trading at 82% of par.  As I 
write this, the junior issue has advanced to 97% of par.  Let's 
hope the market is right.

     Overall, our preferreds have performed well, but that is true 
only because of one huge winner, Gillette.  Leaving aside Gillette, 
our preferreds as a group have delivered us after-tax returns no 
more than equal to those we could have earned from the medium-term 
fixed-income issues that they replaced.

A Proposed Recapitalization

     At the Annual Meeting you will be asked to approve a 
recapitalization of Berkshire, creating two classes of stock.  If 
the plan is adopted, our existing common stock will be designated 
as Class A Common Stock and a new Class B Common Stock will be 
authorized.

     Each share of the "B" will have the rights of 1/30th of an "A" 
share with these exceptions:  First, a B share will have 1/200th of 
the vote of an A share (rather than 1/30th of the vote).  Second, 
the B will not be eligible to participate in Berkshire's 
shareholder-designated charitable contributions program.

     When the recapitalization is complete, each share of A will 
become convertible, at the holder's option and at any time, into 30 
shares of B.  This conversion privilege will not extend in the 
opposite direction.  That is, holders of B shares will not be able 
to convert them into A shares.

     We expect to list the B shares on the New York Stock Exchange, 
where they will trade alongside the A stock.  To create the 
shareholder base necessary for a listing - and to ensure a liquid 
market in the B stock - Berkshire expects to make a public offering 
for cash of at least $100 million of new B shares.  The offering 
will be made only by means of a prospectus.

     The market will ultimately determine the price of the B 
shares.  Their price, though, should be in the neighborhood of 
1/30th of the price of the A shares.

     Class A shareholders who wish to give gifts may find it 
convenient to convert a share or two of their stock into Class B 
shares.  Additionally, arbitrage-related conversions will occur if 
demand for the B is strong enough to push its price to slightly 
above 1/30th of the price of A.

     However, because the Class A stock will entitle its holders to 
full voting rights and access to Berkshire's contributions program, 
these shares will be superior to the Class B shares and we would 
expect most shareholders to remain holders of the Class A - which 
is precisely what the Buffett and Munger families plan to do, 
except in those instances when we ourselves might convert a few 
shares to facilitate gifts.  The prospect that most shareholders 
will stick to the A stock suggests that it will enjoy a somewhat 
more liquid market than the B.

     There are tradeoffs for Berkshire in this recapitalization.  
But they do not arise from the proceeds of the offering - we will 
find constructive uses for the money - nor in any degree from the 
price at which we will sell the B shares.  As I write this - with 
Berkshire stock at $36,000 - Charlie and I do not believe it 
undervalued.  Therefore, the offering we propose will not diminish 
the per-share intrinsic value of our existing stock.  Let me also 
put our thoughts about valuation more baldly:  Berkshire is selling 
at a price at which Charlie and I would not consider buying it.

     What Berkshire will incur by way of the B stock are certain 
added costs, including those involving the mechanics of handling a 
larger number of shareholders.  On the other hand, the stock should 
be a convenience for people wishing to make gifts.  And those of 
you who have hoped for a split have gained a do-it-yourself method 
of bringing one about.

     We are making this move, though, for other reasons - having to 
do with the appearance of expense-laden unit trusts purporting to 
be low-priced "clones" of Berkshire and sure to be aggressively 
marketed.  The idea behind these vehicles is not new:  In recent 
years, a number of people have told me about their wish to create 
an "all-Berkshire" investment fund to be sold at a low dollar 
price.  But until recently, the promoters of these investments 
heard out my objections and backed off.

     I did not discourage these people because I prefer large 
investors over small.  Were it possible, Charlie and I would love 
to turn $1,000 into $3,000 for multitudes of people who would find 
that gain an important answer to their immediate problems.

     In order to quickly triple small stakes, however, we would 
have to just as quickly turn our present market capitalization of 
$43 billion into $129 billion (roughly the market cap of General 
Electric, America's most highly valued company).  We can't come 
close to doing that. The very best we hope for is - on average - to 
double Berkshire's per-share intrinsic value every five years, and 
we may well fall far short of that goal.

     In the end, Charlie and I do not care whether our shareholders 
own Berkshire in large or small amounts.  What we wish for are 
shareholders of any size who are knowledgeable about our 
operations, share our objectives and long-term perspective, and are 
aware of our limitations, most particularly those imposed by our 
large capital base.

     The unit trusts that have recently surfaced fly in the face of 
these goals.  They would be sold by brokers working for big 
commissions, would impose other burdensome costs on their 
shareholders, and would be marketed en masse to unsophisticated 
buyers, apt to be seduced by our past record and beguiled by the 
publicity Berkshire and I have received in recent years.  The sure 
outcome:  a multitude of investors destined to be disappointed.

     Through our creation of the B stock - a low-denomination 
product far superior to Berkshire-only trusts - we hope to make the 
clones unmerchandisable.

     But both present and prospective Berkshire shareholders should 
pay special attention to one point:  Though the per-share intrinsic 
value of our stock has grown at an excellent rate during the past 
five years, its market price has grown still faster.  The stock, in 
other words, has outperformed the business.

     That kind of market overperformance cannot persist indefinitely, 
neither for Berkshire nor any other stock.  Inevitably, there 
will be periods of underperformance as well.  The price 
volatility that results, though endemic to public markets, is 
not to our liking.  What we would prefer instead is to have the 
market price of Berkshire precisely track its intrinsic value.  
Were the stock to do that, every shareholder would benefit during 
his period of ownership in exact proportion to the progress 
Berkshire itself made in the period.

     Obviously, the market behavior of Berkshire's stock will never 
conform to this ideal.  But we will come closer to this goal than 
we would otherwise if our present and prospective shareholders are 
informed, business-oriented and not exposed to high-commission 
salesmanship when making their investment decisions.  To that end, 
we are better off if we can blunt the merchandising efforts of the 
unit trusts - and that is the reason we are creating the B stock.

     We look forward to answering your questions about the 
recapitalization at the Annual Meeting.

Miscellaneous

     Berkshire isn't the only American corporation utilizing the 
new, exciting ABWA strategy.  At about 1:15 p.m. on July 14, 1995, 
Michael Eisner, CEO of The Walt Disney Company, was walking up 
Wildflower Lane in Sun Valley.  At the same time, I was leaving a 
lunch at Herbert Allen's home on that street to meet Tom Murphy, 
CEO of Cap Cities/ABC, for a golf game.

     That morning, speaking to a large group of executives and 
money managers assembled by Allen's investment bank, Michael had 
made a brilliant presentation about Disney, and upon seeing him, I 
offered my congratulations.  We chatted briefly - and the subject 
of a possible combination of Disney and Cap Cities came up.  This 
wasn't the first time a merger had been discussed, but progress had 
never before been made, in part because Disney wanted to buy with 
cash and Cap Cities desired stock.

     Michael and I waited a few minutes for Murph to arrive, and in 
the short conversation that ensued, both Michael and Murph 
indicated they might bend on the stock/cash question.  Within a few 
weeks, they both did, at which point a contract was put together in 
three very busy days.

     The Disney/Cap Cities deal makes so much sense that I'm sure 
it would have occurred without that chance encounter in Sun Valley. 
But when I ran into Michael that day on Wildflower Lane, he was 
heading for his plane, so without that accidental meeting the deal 
certainly wouldn't have happened in the time frame it did.  I 
believe both Disney and Cap Cities will benefit from the fact that 
we all serendipitously met that day.

                      * * * * * * * * * * * *

     It's appropriate that I say a few words here about Murph.  To 
put it simply, he is as fine an executive as I have ever seen in my 
long exposure to business.  Equally important, he possesses human 
qualities every bit the equal of his managerial qualities.  He's an 
extraordinary friend, parent, husband and citizen.  In those rare 
instances in which Murph's personal interests diverged from those 
of shareholders, he unfailingly favored the owners.  When I say 
that I like to be associated with managers whom I would love to 
have as a sibling, in-law, or trustee of my will, Murph is the 
exemplar of what I mean.

     If Murph should elect to run another business, don't bother to 
study its value - just buy the stock.  And don't later be as dumb 
as I was two years ago when I sold one-third of our holdings in Cap 
Cities for $635 million (versus the $1.27 billion those shares 
would bring in the Disney merger).

                      * * * * * * * * * * * * 

     About 96.3% of all eligible shares participated in Berkshire's 
1995 shareholder-designated contributions program.  Contributions 
made were $11.6 million and 3,600 charities were recipients.  A 
full description of the shareholder-designated contributions 
program appears on pages 54-55.

     Every year a few shareholders miss out on the program because 
they don't have their shares registered in their own names on the 
prescribed record date or because they fail to get their 
designation form back to us within the 60-day period allowed.  That 
second problem pained me especially this year because two good 
friends with substantial holdings missed the deadline.  We had to 
deny their requests to be included because we can't make exceptions 
for some shareholders while refusing to make them for others.

     To participate in future programs, you must own Class A shares 
that are registered in the name of the actual owner, not the 
nominee name of a broker, bank or depository.  Shares not so 
registered on August 31, 1996, will be ineligible for the 1996 
program.  When you get the form, return it promptly so that it does 
not get put aside or forgotten.

                      * * * * * * * * * * * *


     When it comes to our Annual Meetings, Charlie and I are 
managerial oddballs:  We thoroughly enjoy the event.  So come join 
us on Monday, May 6.  At Berkshire, we have no investor relations 
department and don't use financial analysts as a channel for 
disseminating information, earnings "guidance," or the like.  
Instead, we prefer direct manager-to-owner communication and 
believe that the Annual Meeting is the ideal place for this 
interchange of ideas.  Talking to you there is efficient for us and 
also democratic in that all present simultaneously hear what we 
have to say.

     Last year, for the first time, we had the Annual Meeting at 
the Holiday Convention Centre and the logistics seemed to work.  
The ballroom there was filled with about 3,200 people, and we had a 
video feed into a second room holding another 800 people.  Seating 
in the main room was a little tight, so this year we will probably 
configure it to hold 3,000.  This year we will also have two rooms 
for the overflow.

     All in all, we will be able to handle 5,000 shareholders.  The 
meeting will start at 9:30 a.m., but be warned that last year the 
main ballroom was filled shortly after 8:00 a.m.

     Shareholders from 49 states attended our 1995 meeting - where 
were you, Vermont? - and a number of foreign countries, including 
Australia, Sweden and Germany, were represented.  As always, the 
meeting attracted shareholders who were interested in Berkshire's 
business - as contrasted to shareholders who are primarily 
interested in themselves - and the questions were all good.  
Charlie and I ate lunch on stage and answered questions for about 
five hours.

     We feel that if owners come from all over the world, we should 
try to make sure they have an opportunity to ask their questions.  
Most shareholders leave about noon, but a thousand or so hardcore 
types usually stay to see whether we will drop.  Charlie and I are 
in training to last at least five hours again this year.

     We will have our usual array of Berkshire products at the 
meeting and this year will add a sales representative from GEICO.  
At the 1995 meeting, we sold 747 pounds of candy, 759 pairs of 
shoes, and over $17,500 of World Books and related publications.  
In a move that might have been dangerous had our stock been weak, 
we added knives last year from our Quikut subsidiary and sold 400 
sets of these.  (We draw the line at soft fruit, however.)  All of 
these goods will again be available this year.  We don't consider a 
cultural event complete unless a little business is mixed in.

     Because we expect a large crowd for the meeting, we recommend 
that you promptly get both plane and hotel reservations.  Those of 
you who like to be downtown (about six miles from the Centre) may 
wish to stay at the Radisson Redick Tower, a small (88 rooms) but 
nice hotel, or at the much larger Red Lion Hotel a few blocks away. 
In the vicinity of the Centre are the Holiday Inn (403 rooms), 
Homewood Suites (118 rooms) and Hampton Inn (136 rooms).  Another 
recommended spot is the Marriott, whose west Omaha location is 
about 100 yards from Borsheim's and a ten-minute drive from the 
Centre.  There will be buses at the Marriott that will leave at 
7:30, 8:00 and 8:30 for the meeting and return after it ends.

     An attachment to our proxy material explains how you can 
obtain the card you will need for admission to the meeting.  A 
good-sized parking area is available at the Centre, while those who 
stay at the Holiday Inn, Homewood Suites and Hampton Inn will be 
able to walk to the meeting.  As usual, we will have buses to take 
you to the Nebraska Furniture Mart and Borsheim's after the meeting 
and to take you from there to hotels or the airport later.

     NFM's main store, on its 64-acre site about two miles north of 
the Centre, is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. on weekdays, 10 a.m. to 
6 p.m. on Saturdays, and noon to 6 p.m. on Sundays.  Rose Blumkin - 
"Mrs. B" - is now 102, but will be hard at work in Mrs. B's 
Warehouse.  She was honored in November at the opening of The Rose, 
a classic downtown theater of the 20's that has been magnificently 
restored, but that would have been demolished had she not saved it. 
Ask her to tell you the story.

     Borsheim's normally is closed on Sunday but will be open for 
shareholders and their guests from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on May 5th.  
Additionally, we will have a special opening for shareholders on 
Saturday, the 4th, from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m.  Last year, on 
Shareholders Day, we wrote 1,733 tickets in the six hours we were 
open - which is a sale every 13 seconds.  Remember, though, that 
records are made to be broken.

     At Borsheim's, we will also have the world's largest faceted 
diamond on display.  Two years in the cutting, this inconspicuous 
bauble is 545 carats in size.  Please inspect this stone and let it 
guide you in determining what size gem is appropriate for the one 
you love.

     On Saturday evening, May 4, there will be a baseball game at 
Rosenblatt Stadium between the Omaha Royals and the Louisville 
Redbirds.  I expect to make the opening pitch - owning a quarter of 
the team assures me of one start per year - but our manager, Mike 
Jirschele, will probably make his usual mistake and yank me 
immediately after.  About 1,700 shareholders attended last year's 
game.  Unfortunately, we had a rain-out, which greatly disappointed 
the many scouts in the stands.  But the smart ones will be back 
this year, and I plan to show them my best stuff.

     Our proxy statement will include information about obtaining 
tickets to the game.  We will also offer an information packet this 
year listing restaurants that will be open on Sunday night and 
describing various things that you can do in Omaha on the weekend.

     For years, I've unsuccessfully tried to get my grade school 
classmate, "Pal" Gorat, to open his steakhouse for business on the 
Sunday evening preceding the meeting.  But this year he's relented. 
Gorat's is a family-owned enterprise that has thrived for 52 
years, and if you like steaks, you'll love this place. I've told 
Pal he will get a good crowd, so call Gorat's at 402-551-3733 for a 
reservation.  You'll spot me there - I'll be the one eating the 
rare T-bone with a double order of hash browns.



                                             Warren E. Buffett
March 1, 1996                                Chairman of the Board








Chairman's Letter - 1996



BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.


Chairman's Letter

  


To the Shareholders of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.:

     Our gain in net worth during 1996 was $6.2 billion, or 36.1%.  Per-
share book value, however, grew by less, 31.8%, because the number of 
Berkshire shares increased:  We issued stock in acquiring FlightSafety 
International and also sold new Class B shares.*   Over the last 32 years 
(that is, since present management took over) per-share book value has 
grown from $19 to $19,011, or at a rate of 23.8% compounded annually.

 * Each Class B share has an economic interest equal to 1/30th of 
   that possessed by a Class A share, which is the new designation for  
   the only stock that Berkshire had outstanding before May 1996.  
   Throughout this report, we state all per-share figures in terms of
   "Class A equivalents," which are the sum of the Class A shares 
   outstanding and 1/30th of the Class B shares outstanding.

     For technical reasons, we have restated our 1995 financial 
statements, a matter that requires me to present one of my less-than-
thrilling explanations of accounting arcana.  I'll make it brief.

     The restatement was required because GEICO became a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of Berkshire on January 2, 1996, whereas it was previously 
classified as an investment.  From an economic viewpoint - taking into 
account major tax efficiencies and other benefits we gained - the value 
of the 51% of GEICO we owned at year-end 1995 increased significantly 
when we acquired the remaining 49% of the company two days later.  
Accounting rules applicable to this type of "step acquisition," however, 
required us to write down the value of our 51% at the time we moved to 
100%.  That writedown - which also, of course, reduced book value - 
amounted to $478.4 million.  As a result, we now carry our original 51% 
of GEICO at a value that is both lower than its market value at the time 
we purchased the remaining 49% of the company and lower than the value at 
which we carry that 49% itself.

     There is an offset, however, to the reduction in book value I have 
just described:  Twice during 1996 we issued Berkshire shares at a 
premium to book value, first in May when we sold the B shares for cash 
and again in December when we used both A and B shares as part-payment 
for FlightSafety.  In total, the three non-operational items affecting 
book value contributed less than one percentage point to our 31.8% per-
share gain last year.

     I dwell on this rise in per-share book value because it roughly 
indicates our economic progress during the year.  But, as Charlie Munger, 
Berkshire's Vice Chairman, and I have repeatedly told you, what counts at 
Berkshire is intrinsic value, not book value.  The last time you got that 
message from us was in the Owner's Manual, sent to you in June after we 
issued the Class B shares.  In that manual, we not only defined certain 
key terms - such as intrinsic value -  but also set forth our economic 
principles.

     For many years, we have listed these principles in the front of our 
annual report, but in this report, on pages 58 to 67, we reproduce the 
entire Owner's Manual.  In this letter, we will occasionally refer to the 
manual so that we can avoid repeating certain definitions and 
explanations.  For example, if you wish to brush up on "intrinsic value," 
see pages 64 and 65.

     Last year, for the first time, we supplied you with a table that 
Charlie and I believe will help anyone trying to estimate Berkshire's 
intrinsic value.  In the updated version of that table, which follows, we 
trace two key indices of value.  The first column lists our per-share 
ownership of investments (including cash and equivalents) and the second 
column shows our per-share earnings from Berkshire's operating businesses 
before taxes and purchase-accounting adjustments but after all interest 
and corporate overhead expenses.  The operating-earnings column excludes
all dividends, interest and capital gains that we realized from the 
investments presented in the first column.  In effect, the two columns 
show what Berkshire would have reported had it been broken into two parts.


		                                 Pre-tax Earnings Per Share
	                           Investments   Excluding All Income from
Year	                            Per Share           Investments        
----                               -----------   -------------------------
1965................................$       4	        $      4.08
1975................................	  159	              (6.48)
1985................................	2,443	              18.86
1995................................   22,088	             258.20
1996................................   28,500	             421.39

Annual Growth Rate, 1965-95.........	33.4%	              14.7% 
One-Year Growth Rate, 1995-96 ......	29.0%	              63.2% 


     As the table tells you, our investments per share increased in 1996 
by 29.0% and our non-investment earnings grew by 63.2%.  Our goal is to 
keep the numbers in both columns moving ahead at a reasonable (or, better 
yet, unreasonable) pace.

     Our expectations, however, are tempered by two realities.  First, 
our past rates of growth cannot be matched nor even approached:  
Berkshire's equity capital is now large - in fact, fewer than ten 
businesses in America have capital larger -  and an abundance of funds 
tends to dampen returns.  Second, whatever our rate of progress, it will 
not be smooth:  Year-to-year moves in the first column of the table above 
will be influenced in a major way by fluctuations in securities markets; 
the figures in the second column will be affected by wide swings in the 
profitability of our catastrophe-reinsurance business.

     In the table, the donations made pursuant to our shareholder-
designated contributions program are charged against the second column, 
though we view them as a shareholder benefit rather than as an expense.  
All other corporate expenses are also charged against the second column. 
These costs may be lower than those of any other large American 
corporation:  Our after-tax headquarters expense amounts to less than two 
basis points (1/50th of 1%) measured against net worth.  Even so, Charlie 
used to think this expense percentage outrageously high, blaming it on my 
use of Berkshire's corporate jet, The Indefensible.  But Charlie has 
recently experienced a "counter-revelation":  With our purchase of 
FlightSafety, whose major activity is the training of corporate pilots, 
he now rhapsodizes at the mere mention of jets.

     Seriously, costs matter.  For example, equity mutual funds incur 
corporate expenses - largely payments to the funds' managers - that 
average about 100 basis points, a levy likely to cut the returns their 
investors earn by 10% or more over time.  Charlie and I make no promises 
about Berkshire's results.  We do promise you, however, that virtually 
all of the gains Berkshire makes will end up with shareholders.  We are 
here to make money with you, not off you.


The Relationship of Intrinsic Value to Market Price

     In last year's letter, with Berkshire shares selling at $36,000, I 
told you:  (1) Berkshire's gain in market value in recent years had 
outstripped its gain in intrinsic value, even though the latter gain had 
been highly satisfactory; (2) that kind of overperformance could not 
continue indefinitely; (3) Charlie and I did not at that moment consider 
Berkshire to be undervalued.

     Since I set down those cautions, Berkshire's intrinsic value has 
increased very significantly - aided in a major way by a stunning 
performance at GEICO that I will tell you more about later - while the 
market price of our shares has changed little.  This, of course, means 
that in 1996 Berkshire's stock underperformed the business.  
Consequently, today's price/value relationship is both much different 
from what it was a year ago and, as Charlie and I see it, more 
appropriate.

     Over time, the aggregate gains made by Berkshire shareholders must 
of necessity match the business gains of the company.  When the stock 
temporarily overperforms or underperforms the business, a limited number 
of shareholders - either sellers or buyers - receive outsized benefits at 
the expense of those they trade with.  Generally, the sophisticated have 
an edge over the innocents in this game.

     Though our primary goal is to maximize the amount that our 
shareholders, in total, reap from their ownership of Berkshire, we wish 
also to minimize the benefits going to some shareholders at the expense 
of others.  These are goals we would have were we managing a family 
partnership, and we believe they make equal sense for the manager of a 
public company.  In a partnership, fairness requires that partnership 
interests be valued equitably when partners enter or exit; in a public 
company, fairness prevails when market price and intrinsic value are in 
sync.  Obviously, they won't always meet that ideal, but a manager - by 
his policies and communications - can do much to foster equity.

     Of course, the longer a shareholder holds his shares, the more 
bearing Berkshire's business results will have on his financial 
experience - and the less it will matter what premium or discount to 
intrinsic value prevails when he buys and sells his stock.  That's one 
reason we hope to attract owners with long-term horizons.  Overall, I 
think we have succeeded in that pursuit.  Berkshire probably ranks number 
one among large American corporations in the percentage of its shares 
held by owners with a long-term view.


Acquisitions of 1996

     We made two acquisitions in 1996, both possessing exactly the 
qualities we seek - excellent business economics and an outstanding 
manager.

     The first acquisition was Kansas Bankers Surety (KBS), an insurance 
company whose name describes its specialty.  The company, which does 
business in 22 states, has an extraordinary underwriting record, achieved 
through the efforts of Don Towle, an extraordinary manager.  Don has 
developed first-hand relationships with hundreds of bankers and knows 
every detail of his operation.  He thinks of himself as running a company 
that is "his," an attitude we treasure at Berkshire.  Because of its 
relatively small size, we placed KBS with Wesco, our 80%-owned 
subsidiary, which has wanted to expand its insurance operations.

     You might be interested in the carefully-crafted and sophisticated 
acquisition strategy that allowed Berkshire to nab this deal.  Early in 
1996 I was invited to the 40th birthday party of my nephew's wife, Jane 
Rogers.  My taste for social events being low, I immediately, and in my 
standard, gracious way, began to invent reasons for skipping the event.  
The party planners then countered brilliantly by offering me a seat next 
to a man I always enjoy, Jane's dad, Roy Dinsdale - so I went.

     The party took place on January 26.  Though the music was loud - Why 
must bands play as if they will be paid by the decibel? - I just managed 
to hear Roy say he'd come from a directors meeting at Kansas Bankers 
Surety, a company I'd always admired.  I shouted back that he should let 
me know if it ever became available for purchase.

     On February 12, I got the following letter from Roy:  "Dear Warren: 
Enclosed is the annual financial information on Kansas Bankers Surety.  
This is the company that we talked about at Janie's party.  If I can be 
of any further help, please let me know."  On February 13, I told Roy we 
would pay $75 million for the company - and before long we had a deal.  
I'm now scheming to get invited to Jane's next party.

     Our other acquisition in 1996 - FlightSafety International, the 
world's leader in the training of pilots - was far larger, at about $1.5 
billion, but had an equally serendipitous origin.  The heroes of this 
story are first, Richard Sercer, a Tucson aviation consultant, and 
second, his wife, Alma Murphy, an ophthalmology graduate of Harvard 
Medical School, who in 1990 wore down her husband's reluctance and got 
him to buy Berkshire stock.  Since then, the two have attended all our 
Annual Meetings, but I didn't get to know them personally.

     Fortunately, Richard had also been a long-time shareholder of 
FlightSafety, and it occurred to him last year that the two companies 
would make a good fit.  He knew our acquisition criteria, and he thought 
that Al Ueltschi, FlightSafety's 79-year-old CEO, might want to make a 
deal that would both give him a home for his company and a security in 
payment that he would feel comfortable owning throughout his lifetime.  
So in July, Richard wrote Bob Denham, CEO of Salomon Inc, suggesting that 
he explore the possibility of a merger.

     Bob took it from there, and on September 18, Al and I met in New 
York.  I had long been familiar with FlightSafety's business, and in 
about 60 seconds I knew that Al was exactly our kind of manager.  A month 
later, we had a contract.  Because Charlie and I wished to minimize the 
issuance of Berkshire shares, the transaction we structured gave 
FlightSafety shareholders a choice of cash or stock but carried terms 
that encouraged those who were tax-indifferent to take cash.  This nudge 
led to about 51% of FlightSafety's shares being exchanged for cash, 41% 
for Berkshire A and 8% for Berkshire B.

     Al has had a lifelong love affair with aviation and actually piloted 
Charles Lindbergh.  After a barnstorming career in the 1930s, he began 
working for Juan Trippe, Pan Am's legendary chief.  In 1951, while still 
at Pan Am, Al founded FlightSafety, subsequently building it into a 
simulator manufacturer and a worldwide trainer of pilots (single-engine, 
helicopter, jet and marine).  The company operates in 41 locations, 
outfitted with 175 simulators of planes ranging from the very small, such 
as Cessna 210s, to Boeing 747s.  Simulators are not cheap - they can cost 
as much as $19 million  - so this business, unlike many of our 
operations, is capital intensive.  About half of the company's revenues 
are derived from the training of corporate pilots, with most of the 
balance coming from airlines and the military.

     Al may be 79, but he looks and acts about 55.  He will run 
operations just as he has in the past:  We never fool with success.  I 
have told him that though we don't believe in splitting Berkshire stock, 
we will split his age 2-for-1 when he hits 100.

     An observer might conclude from our hiring practices that Charlie 
and I were traumatized early in life by an EEOC bulletin on age 
discrimination.  The real explanation, however, is self-interest:  It's 
difficult to teach a new dog old tricks.  The many Berkshire managers who 
are past 70 hit home runs today at the same pace that long ago gave them 
reputations as young slugging sensations.  Therefore, to get a job with 
us, just employ the tactic of the 76-year-old who persuaded a dazzling 
beauty of 25 to marry him.  "How did you ever get her to accept?" asked 
his envious contemporaries.  The comeback:  "I told her I was 86."

                	* * * * * * * * * * * *

     And now we pause for our usual commercial:  If you own a large 
business with good economic characteristics and wish to become associated 
with an exceptional collection of businesses having similar 
characteristics, Berkshire may well be the home you seek.  Our 
requirements are set forth on page 21.  If your company meets them - and 
if I fail to make the next birthday party you attend - give me a call.


Insurance Operations - Overview

     Our insurance business was terrific in 1996.  In both primary 
insurance, where GEICO is our main unit, and in our "super-cat" 
reinsurance business, results were outstanding.

     As we've explained in past reports, what counts in our insurance 
business is, first, the amount of "float" we generate and, second, its 
cost to us.  These are matters that are important for you to understand 
because float is a major component of Berkshire's intrinsic value that is 
not reflected in book value.

     To begin with, float is money we hold but don't own.  In an 
insurance operation, float arises because premiums are received before 
losses are paid.  Secondly, the premiums that an insurer takes in 
typically do not cover the losses and expenses it eventually must pay.  
That leaves it running an "underwriting loss," which is the cost of 
float.  An insurance business has value if its cost of float over time is 
less than the cost the company would otherwise incur to obtain funds.  
But the business is an albatross if the cost of its float is higher than 
market rates for money.

     As the numbers in the following table show, Berkshire's insurance 
business has been a huge winner.  For the table, we have calculated our 
float -  which we generate in large amounts relative to our premium 
volume - by adding loss reserves, loss adjustment reserves, funds held 
under reinsurance assumed and unearned premium reserves, and then 
subtracting agents' balances, prepaid acquisition costs, prepaid taxes 
and deferred charges applicable to assumed reinsurance.  Our cost of 
float is determined by our underwriting loss or profit.  In those years 
when we have had an underwriting profit, such as the last four, our cost 
of float has been negative.  In effect, we have been paid for holding 
money.

 	         (1)     	(2)     		      Yearend Yield
	     Underwriting		     Approximat        on Long-Term
	         Loss       Average Float   Cost of Funds      Govt. Bonds 	
             ------------   -------------  ----------------   -------------
	            (In $ Millions)	   (Ratio of 1 to 2)

1967..........	profit	        17.3	    less than zero	  5.50%
1968..........	profit	        19.9	    less than zero	  5.90%
1969..........	profit	        23.4	    less than zero	  6.79%
1970..........	  0.37	        32.4	             1.14%	  6.25%
1971..........	profit	        52.5	    less than zero	  5.81%
1972..........	profit	        69.5	    less than zero	  5.82%
1973..........	profit	        73.3	    less than zero	  7.27%
1974..........    7.36	        79.1	             9.30% 	  8.13%
1975..........	 11.35	        87.6	            12.96%	  8.03%
1976..........	profit	       102.6	    less than zero	  7.30%
1977..........	profit	       139.0	    less than zero	  7.97%
1978..........	profit	       190.4	    less than zero	  8.93%
1979..........	profit	       227.3	    less than zero	 10.08%
1980..........	profit	       237.0	    less than zero	 11.94%
1981..........	profit	       228.4	    less than zero	 13.61%
1982..........	 21.56	       220.6	             9.77%	 10.64%
1983..........	 33.87	       231.3	            14.64%	 11.84%
1984..........	 48.06	       253.2	            18.98%	 11.58%
1985..........	 44.23	       390.2	            11.34%	  9.34%
1986..........	 55.84	       797.5	             7.00%	  7.60%
1987..........	 55.43	     1,266.7	             4.38%	  8.95%
1988..........	 11.08	     1,497.7	             0.74% 	  9.00%
1989..........	 24.40	     1,541.3	             1.58%	  7.97%
1990..........	 26.65	     1,637.3	             1.63%	  8.24%
1991..........	119.59	     1,895.0	             6.31%	  7.40%
1992..........	108.96	     2,290.4	             4.76%	  7.39%
1993..........	profit	     2,624.7	    less than zero	  6.35%
1994..........	profit	     3,056.6	    less than zero	  7.88%
1995..........	profit	     3,607.2	    less than zero	  5.95%
1996..........	profit	     6,702.0	    less than zero	  6.64%

     Since 1967, when we entered the insurance business, our float has 
grown at an annual compounded rate of 22.3%.  In more years than not, our 
cost of funds has been less than nothing.  This access to "free" money has 
boosted Berkshire's performance in a major way.  Moreover, our acquisition 
of GEICO materially increases the probability that we can continue to 
obtain "free" funds in increasing amounts.


Super-Cat Insurance

     As in the past three years, we once again stress that the good results 
we are reporting for Berkshire stem in part from our super-cat business 
having a lucky year.  In this operation, we sell policies that insurance 
and reinsurance companies buy to protect themselves from the effects of 
mega-catastrophes.  Since truly major catastrophes are rare occurrences, 
our super-cat business can be expected to show large profits in most years 
- and to record a huge loss occasionally.  In other words, the 
attractiveness of our super-cat business will take a great many years to 
measure.  What you must understand, however, is that a truly terrible year 
in the super-cat business is not a possibility - it's a certainty.  The 
only question is when it will come.

     I emphasize this lugubrious point because I would not want you to 
panic and sell your Berkshire stock upon hearing that some large 
catastrophe had cost us a significant amount.  If you would tend to react 
that way, you should not own Berkshire shares now, just as you should 
entirely avoid owning stocks if a crashing market would lead you to panic 
and sell.  Selling fine businesses on "scary" news is usually a bad 
decision.  (Robert Woodruff, the business genius who built Coca-Cola over 
many decades and who owned a huge position in the company, was once asked 
when it might be a good time to sell Coke stock.  Woodruff had a simple 
answer:  "I don't know.  I've never sold any.")

     In our super-cat operation, our customers are insurers that are 
exposed to major earnings volatility and that wish to reduce it.  The 
product we sell -  for what we hope is an appropriate price -  is our 
willingness to shift that volatility to our own books.  Gyrations in 
Berkshire's earnings don't bother us in the least:  Charlie and I would 
much rather earn a lumpy 15% over time than a smooth 12%.  (After all, our 
earnings swing wildly on a daily and weekly basis - why should we demand 
that smoothness accompany each orbit that the earth makes of the sun?)  We 
are most comfortable with that thinking, however, when we have 
shareholder/partners who can also accept volatility, and that's why we 
regularly repeat our cautions.

     We took on some major super-cat exposures during 1996.  At mid-year we 
wrote a contract with Allstate that covers Florida hurricanes, and though 
there are no definitive records that would allow us to prove this point, we 
believe that to have then been the largest single catastrophe risk ever 
assumed by one company for its own account.  Later in the year, however, we 
wrote a policy for the California Earthquake Authority that goes into 
effect on April 1, 1997, and that exposes us to a loss more than twice that 
possible under the Florida contract.  Again we retained all the risk for 
our own account.  Large as these coverages are, Berkshire's after-tax 
"worst-case" loss from a true mega-catastrophe is probably no more than 
$600 million, which is less than 3% of our book value and 1.5% of our market 
value.  To gain some perspective on this exposure, look at the table on 
page 2 and note the much greater volatility that security markets have 
delivered us.

     In the super-cat business, we have three major competitive advantages. 
First, the parties buying reinsurance from us know that we both can and 
will pay under the most adverse of circumstances.  Were a truly cataclysmic 
disaster to occur, it is not impossible that a financial panic would 
quickly follow.  If that happened, there could well be respected reinsurers 
that would have difficulty paying at just the moment that their clients 
faced extraordinary needs. Indeed, one reason we never "lay off" part of 
the risks we insure is that we have reservations about our ability to 
collect from others when disaster strikes.  When it's Berkshire promising, 
insureds know with certainty that they can collect promptly.

     Our second advantage - somewhat related - is subtle but important.  
After a mega-catastrophe, insurers might well find it difficult to obtain 
reinsurance even though their need for coverage would then be particularly 
great.  At such a time, Berkshire would without question have very 
substantial capacity available - but it will naturally be our long-standing 
clients that have first call on it.  That business reality has made major 
insurers and reinsurers throughout the world realize the desirability of 
doing business with us.  Indeed, we are currently getting sizable "stand-
by" fees from reinsurers that are simply nailing down their ability to get 
coverage from us should the market tighten.

     Our final competitive advantage is that we can provide dollar 
coverages of a size neither matched nor approached elsewhere in the 
industry.  Insurers looking for huge covers know that a single call to 
Berkshire will produce a firm and immediate offering.

     A few facts about our exposure to California earthquakes - our largest 
risk - seem in order.  The Northridge quake of 1994 laid homeowners' losses 
on insurers that greatly exceeded what computer models had told them to 
expect.  Yet the intensity of that quake was mild compared to the "worst-
case" possibility for California.  Understandably, insurers became - ahem - 
shaken and started contemplating a retreat from writing earthquake coverage 
into their homeowners' policies.

     In a thoughtful response, Chuck Quackenbush, California's insurance 
commissioner, designed a new residential earthquake policy to be written by 
a state-sponsored insurer, The California Earthquake Authority.  This 
entity, which went into operation on December 1, 1996, needed large layers 
of reinsurance - and that's where we came in.  Berkshire's layer of 
approximately $1 billion will be called upon if the Authority's aggregate 
losses in the period ending March 31, 2001 exceed about $5 billion.  (The 
press originally reported larger figures, but these would have applied only 
if all California insurers had entered into the arrangement; instead only 
72% signed up.)

     So what are the true odds of our having to make a payout during the 
policy's term?  We don't know - nor do we think computer models will help 
us, since we believe the precision they project is a chimera.  In fact, 
such models can lull decision-makers into a false sense of security and 
thereby increase their chances of making a really huge mistake.  We've 
already seen such debacles in both insurance and investments.  Witness 
"portfolio insurance," whose destructive effects in the 1987 market crash 
led one wag to observe that it was the computers that should have been 
jumping out of windows.

     Even if perfection in assessing risks is unattainable, insurers can 
underwrite sensibly.  After all, you need not know a man's precise age to 
know that he is old enough to vote nor know his exact weight to recognize 
his need to diet.  In insurance, it is essential to remember that virtually 
all surprises are unpleasant, and with that in mind we try to price our 
super-cat exposures so that about 90% of total premiums end up being 
eventually paid out in losses and expenses.  Over time, we will find out 
how smart our pricing has been, but that will not be quickly.  The super-
cat business is just like the investment business in that it often takes a 
long time to find out whether you knew what you were doing.

     What I can state with certainty, however, is that we have the best 
person in the world to run our super-cat business:  Ajit Jain, whose value 
to Berkshire is simply enormous.  In the reinsurance field, disastrous 
propositions abound.  I know that because I personally embraced all too 
many of these in the 1970s and also because GEICO has a large runoff 
portfolio made up of foolish contracts written in the early-1980s, able 
though its then-management was.  Ajit, I can assure you, won't make 
mistakes of this type.

     I have mentioned that a mega-catastrophe might cause a catastrophe in 
the financial markets, a possibility that is unlikely but not far-fetched. 
Were the catastrophe a quake in California of sufficient magnitude to tap 
our coverage, we would almost certainly be damaged in other ways as well.  
For example, See's, Wells Fargo and Freddie Mac could be hit hard.  All in 
all, though, we can handle this aggregation of exposures.

     In this respect, as in others, we try to "reverse engineer" our future 
at Berkshire, bearing in mind Charlie's dictum:  "All I want to know is 
where I'm going to die so I'll never go there."  (Inverting really works:  
Try singing country western songs backwards and you will quickly regain 
your house, your car and your wife.)  If we can't tolerate a possible 
consequence, remote though it may be, we steer clear of planting its seeds. 
That is why we don't borrow big amounts and why we make sure that our 
super-cat business losses, large though the maximums may sound, will not 
put a major dent in Berkshire's intrinsic value. 


Insurance - GEICO and Other Primary Operations

     When we moved to total ownership of GEICO early last year, our 
expectations were high - and they are all being exceeded.  That is true 
from both a business and personal perspective:  GEICO's operating chief, 
Tony Nicely, is a superb business manager and a delight to work with.  
Under almost any conditions, GEICO would be an exceptionally valuable 
asset.  With Tony at the helm, it is reaching levels of performance that 
the organization would only a few years ago have thought impossible.

     There's nothing esoteric about GEICO's success:  The company's 
competitive strength flows directly from its position as a low-cost 
operator.  Low costs permit low prices, and low prices attract and retain 
good policyholders.  The final segment of a virtuous circle is drawn when 
policyholders recommend us to their friends.  GEICO gets more than one 
million referrals annually and these produce more than half of our new 
business,  an advantage that gives us enormous savings in acquisition 
expenses - and that makes our costs still lower.

     This formula worked in spades for GEICO in 1996:  Its voluntary auto 
policy count grew 10%.  During the previous 20 years, the company's best-
ever growth for a year had been 8%, a rate achieved only once.  Better yet, 
the growth in voluntary policies accelerated during the year, led by major 
gains in the nonstandard market, which has been an underdeveloped area at 
GEICO.  I focus here on voluntary policies because the involuntary business 
we get from assigned risk pools and the like is unprofitable.  Growth in 
that sector is most unwelcome.

     GEICO's growth would mean nothing if it did not produce reasonable 
underwriting profits.  Here, too, the news is good:  Last year we hit our 
underwriting targets and then some.  Our goal, however, is not to widen our 
profit margin but rather to enlarge the price advantage we offer customers. 
Given that strategy, we believe that 1997's growth will easily top that of 
last year.

     We expect new competitors to enter the direct-response market, and 
some of our existing competitors are likely to expand geographically.  
Nonetheless, the economies of scale we enjoy should allow us to maintain or 
even widen the protective moat surrounding our economic castle.  We do best 
on costs in geographical areas in which we enjoy high market penetration.  
As our policy count grows, concurrently delivering gains in penetration, we 
expect to drive costs materially lower.  GEICO's sustainable cost advantage 
is what attracted me to the company way back in 1951, when the entire 
business was valued at $7 million.  It is also why I felt Berkshire should 
pay $2.3 billion last year for the 49% of the company that we didn't then 
own.

     Maximizing the results of a wonderful business requires management and 
focus.  Lucky for us, we have in Tony a superb manager whose business focus 
never wavers.  Wanting also to get the entire GEICO organization 
concentrating as he does, we needed a compensation plan that was itself 
sharply focused - and immediately after our purchase, we put one in.

     Today, the bonuses received by dozens of top executives, starting with 
Tony, are based upon only two key variables:  (1) growth in voluntary auto 
policies and (2) underwriting profitability on "seasoned" auto business 
(meaning policies that have been on the books for more than one year).  In 
addition, we use the same yardsticks to calculate the annual contribution 
to the company's profit-sharing plan.  Everyone at GEICO knows what counts.

     The GEICO plan exemplifies Berkshire's incentive compensation 
principles:  Goals should be (1) tailored to the economics of the specific 
operating business; (2) simple in character so that the degree to which 
they are being realized can be easily measured; and (3) directly related to 
the daily activities of plan participants.  As a corollary, we shun 
"lottery ticket" arrangements, such as options on Berkshire shares, whose 
ultimate value - which could range from zero to huge - is totally out of 
the control of the person whose behavior we would like to affect.  In our 
view, a system that produces quixotic payoffs will not only be wasteful for 
owners but may actually discourage the focused behavior we value in 
managers.

     Every quarter, all 9,000 GEICO associates can see the results that 
determine our profit-sharing plan contribution.  In 1996, they enjoyed the 
experience because the plan literally went off the chart that had been 
constructed at the start of the year.  Even I knew the answer to that 
problem:  Enlarge the chart.  Ultimately, the results called for a record 
contribution of 16.9% ($40 million), compared to a five-year average of 
less than 10% for the comparable plans previously in effect.  Furthermore, 
at Berkshire, we never greet good work by raising the bar.  If GEICO's 
performance continues to improve, we will happily keep on making larger 
charts.

     Lou Simpson continues to manage GEICO's money in an outstanding 
manner:  Last year, the equities in his portfolio outdid the S&P 500 by 6.2 
percentage points.  In Lou's part of GEICO's operation, we again tie 
compensation to performance - but to investment performance over a four-
year period, not to underwriting results nor to the performance of GEICO as 
a whole.  We think it foolish for an insurance company to pay bonuses that 
are tied to overall corporate results when great work on one side of the 
business - underwriting or investment - could conceivably be completely 
neutralized by bad work on the other.  If you bat .350 at Berkshire, you 
can be sure you will get paid commensurately even if the rest of the team 
bats .200.  In Lou and Tony, however, we are lucky to have Hall-of-Famers 
in both key positions.

                	* * * * * * * * * * * *

     Though they are, of course, smaller than GEICO, our other primary 
insurance operations turned in equally stunning results last year.  
National Indemnity's traditional business had a combined ratio of 74.2 and, 
as usual, developed a large amount of float compared to premium volume.  
Over the last three years, this segment of our business, run by Don 
Wurster, has had an average combined ratio of 83.0.  Our homestate 
operation, managed by Rod Eldred, recorded a combined ratio of 87.1 even 
though it absorbed the expenses of expanding to new states.  Rod's three-
year combined ratio is an amazing 83.2.  Berkshire's workers' compensation 
business, run out of California by Brad Kinstler, has now moved into six 
other states and, despite the costs of that expansion, again achieved an 
excellent underwriting profit.  Finally, John Kizer, at Central States 
Indemnity, set new records for premium volume while generating good 
earnings from underwriting.  In aggregate, our smaller insurance operations 
(now including Kansas Bankers Surety) have an underwriting record virtually 
unmatched in the industry.  Don, Rod, Brad and John have all created 
significant value for Berkshire, and we believe there is more to come.


Taxes

     In 1961, President Kennedy said that we should ask not what our 
country can do for us, but rather ask what we can do for our country.  Last 
year we decided to give his suggestion a try - and who says it never hurts 
to ask?  We were told to mail $860 million in income taxes to the U.S. 
Treasury.

     Here's a little perspective on that figure:  If an equal amount had 
been paid by only 2,000 other taxpayers, the government would have had a 
balanced budget in 1996 without needing a dime of taxes - income or Social 
Security or what have you - from any other American.  Berkshire 
shareholders can truly say, "I gave at the office."

     Charlie and I believe that large tax payments by Berkshire are 
entirely fitting.  The contribution we thus make to society's well-being is 
at most only proportional to its contribution to ours.  Berkshire prospers 
in America as it would nowhere else.


Sources of Reported Earnings

     The table that follows shows the main sources of Berkshire's reported 
earnings.  In this presentation, purchase-accounting adjustments are not 
assigned to the specific businesses to which they apply, but are instead 
aggregated and shown separately.  This procedure lets you view the earnings 
of our businesses as they would have been reported had we not purchased 
them.  For the reasons discussed on pages 65 and 66, this form of 
presentation seems to us to be more useful to investors and managers than 
one utilizing generally-accepted accounting principles (GAAP), which 
require purchase-premiums to be charged off business-by-business.  The 
total earnings we show in the table are, of course, identical to the GAAP 
total in our audited financial statements.



				                        (in millions)                       
                                         --------------------------------------
                                 			     Berkshire's Share
				                              of Net Earnings  
				                             (after taxes and  
		                         Pre-tax Earnings   minority interests)  
                                         ----------------   -------------------
                                	   1996    1995(1)     1996  	1995(1) 
                                         -------  --------   -------    -------
Operating Earnings:
  Insurance Group:
	Underwriting.....................$ 222.1  $   20.5   $ 142.8    $ 11.3 
	Net Investment Income............  726.2     501.6     593.1     417.7 	
  Buffalo News...........................   50.4      46.8      29.5      27.3 		
  Fechheimer.............................   17.3      16.9       9.3       8.8 	
  Finance Businesses.....................   23.1      20.8      14.9      12.6 		
  Home Furnishings.......................   43.8      29.7(2)   24.8      16.7(2)	 	 	
  Jewelry................................   27.8      33.9(3)   16.1      19.1(3)	 
  Kirby..................................   58.5      50.2      39.9      32.1 		 	
  Scott Fetzer Manufacturing Group.......   50.6      34.1      32.2      21.2 		 	 	
  See's Candies..........................   51.9      50.2      30.8      29.8 		 	 	
  Shoe Group.............................   61.6      58.4      41.0      37.5 		 	
  World Book.............................   12.6       8.8       9.5       7.0 		 	 	
  Purchase-Accounting Adjustments........  (75.7)    (27.0)    (70.5)    (23.4)		
  Interest Expense(4)....................  (94.3)    (56.0)    (56.6)    (34.9)				
  Shareholder-Designated Contributions...  (13.3)    (11.6)     (8.5)     (7.0)				
  Other..................................   58.8      37.4      34.8      24.4 	
                                         -------  --------  --------   -------
Operating Earnings.......................1,221.4     814.7     883.1     600.2 
Sales of Securities......................2,484.5     194.1   1,605.5     125.0 
                                         -------  --------  --------   -------
Total Earnings - All Entities...........$3,705.9  $1,008.8  $2,488.6   $ 725.2 		
                                         =======  ========  ========   =======

(1) Before the GEICO-related restatement.	(3) Includes Helzberg's from
                                                      April 30, 1995.
(2) Includes R.C. Willey from June 29, 1995.	(4) Excludes interest expense
                                                      of Finance Businesses.

     In this section last year, I discussed three businesses that reported 
a decline in earnings - Buffalo News, Shoe Group and World Book.  All, I'm 
happy to say, recorded gains in 1996.

     World Book, however, did not find it easy:  Despite the operation's 
new status as the only direct-seller of encyclopedias in the country 
(Encyclopedia Britannica exited the field last year), its unit volume fell. 
Additionally, World Book spent heavily on a new CD-ROM product that began 
to take in revenues only in early 1997, when it was launched in association 
with IBM.  In the face of these factors, earnings would have evaporated had 
World Book not revamped distribution methods and cut overhead at 
headquarters, thereby dramatically reducing its fixed costs.  Overall, the 
company has gone a long way toward assuring its long-term viability in both 
the print and electronic marketplaces.

     Our only disappointment last year was in jewelry:  Borsheim's did 
fine, but Helzberg's suffered a material decline in earnings.  Its expense 
levels had been geared to a sizable increase in same-store sales, 
consistent with the gains achieved in recent years.  When sales were 
instead flat, profit margins fell.  Jeff Comment, CEO of Helzberg's, is 
addressing the expense problem in a decisive manner, and the company's 
earnings should improve in 1997.

     Overall, our operating businesses continue to perform exceptionally, 
far outdoing their industry norms.  For this, Charlie and I thank our 
managers.  If you should see any of them at the Annual Meeting, add your 
thanks as well.

     More information about our various businesses is given on pages 36-
46, where you will also find our segment earnings reported on a GAAP 
basis.  In addition, on pages 51-57, we have rearranged Berkshire's 
financial data into four segments on a non-GAAP basis, a presentation 
that corresponds to the way Charlie and I think about the company.  Our 
intent is to supply you with the financial information that we would wish 
you to give us if our positions were reversed. 

"Look-Through" Earnings

     Reported earnings are a poor measure of economic progress at 
Berkshire, in part because the numbers shown in the table presented 
earlier include only the dividends we receive from investees - though 
these dividends typically represent only a small fraction of the earnings 
attributable to our ownership.  Not that we mind this division of money, 
since on balance we regard the undistributed earnings of investees as 
more valuable to us than the portion paid out.  The reason is simple:  
Our investees often have the opportunity to reinvest earnings at high 
rates of return.  So why should we want them paid out?

     To depict something closer to economic reality at Berkshire than 
reported earnings, though, we employ the concept of "look-through" 
earnings.  As we calculate these, they consist of: (1) the operating 
earnings reported in the previous section, plus; (2) our share of the 
retained operating earnings of major investees that, under GAAP 
accounting, are not reflected in our profits, less; (3) an allowance for 
the tax that would be paid by Berkshire if these retained earnings of 
investees had instead been distributed to us.  When tabulating "operating 
earnings" here, we exclude purchase-accounting adjustments as well as 
capital gains and other major non-recurring items.

     The following table sets forth our 1996 look-through earnings, 
though I warn you that the figures can be no more than approximate, since 
they are based on a number of judgment calls.  (The dividends paid to us 
by these investees have been included in the operating earnings itemized 
on page 12, mostly under "Insurance Group:  Net Investment Income.") 

                                                           Berkshire's Share
                                                            of Undistributed
                                 Berkshire's Approximate   Operating Earnings 
Berkshire's Major Investees      Ownership at Yearend(1)    (in millions)(2)  
-------------------------------- -----------------------   ------------------

American Express Company........ 	 10.5%	                $  132
The Coca-Cola Company...........          8.1%                     180
The Walt Disney Company.........	  3.6%	                    50
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.	  8.4%	                    77
The Gillette Company............	  8.6%	                    73
McDonald's Corporation..........  	  4.3%	                    38
The Washington Post Company.....	 15.8%	                    27
Wells Fargo & Company...........	  8.0%	                    84 
                                                                ------
Berkshire's share of undistributed earnings of major investees..   661 
Hypothetical tax on these undistributed investee earnings(3)....   (93)	 
Reported operating earnings of Berkshire........................   954
                                                                ------
      Total look-through earnings of Berkshire..................$1,522 
                                                                ======

     (1) Does not include shares allocable to minority interests
     (2) Calculated on average ownership for the year
     (3) The tax rate used is 14%, which is the rate Berkshire pays on 
             the dividends it receives


Common Stock Investments

     Below we present our common stock investments.  Those with a market 
value of more than $500 million are itemized.									

                                                     12/31/96
      Shares	Company	                         Cost*     Market
 ----------- ---------------------------------  --------  ---------
                                               (dollars in millions)
  49,456,900 American Express Company...........$1,392.7  $ 2,794.3
 200,000,000 The Coca-Cola Company.............. 1,298.9   10,525.0
  24,614,214 The Walt Disney Company............   577.0    1,716.8
  64,246,000 Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp....   333.4    1,772.8
  48,000,000 The Gillette Company...............   600.0    3,732.0
  30,156,600 McDonald's Corporation............. 1,265.3    1,368.4
   1,727,765 The Washington Post Company........    10.6      579.0
   7,291,418 Wells Fargo & Company..............   497.8    1,966.9
 	     Others............................. 1,934.5    3,295.4
                                                --------  ---------
 	     Total Common Stocks................$7,910.2  $27,750.6
                                                ========  =========

     * Represents tax-basis cost which, in aggregate, is $1.2 billion 
          less than GAAP cost.

     Our portfolio shows little change:  We continue to make more money 
when snoring than when active.

     Inactivity strikes us as intelligent behavior.  Neither we nor most 
business managers would dream of feverishly trading highly-profitable 
subsidiaries because a small move in the Federal Reserve's discount rate 
was predicted or because some Wall Street pundit had reversed his views 
on the market.  Why, then, should we behave differently with our minority 
positions in wonderful businesses?  The art of investing in public 
companies successfully is little different from the art of successfully 
acquiring subsidiaries.  In each case you simply want to acquire, at a 
sensible price, a business with excellent economics and able, honest 
management.  Thereafter, you need only monitor whether these qualities 
are being preserved.

     When carried out capably, an investment strategy of that type will 
often result in its practitioner owning a few securities that will come 
to represent a very large portion of his portfolio.  This investor would 
get a similar result if he followed a policy of purchasing an interest 
in, say, 20% of the future earnings of a number of outstanding college 
basketball stars.  A handful of these would go on to achieve NBA stardom, 
and the investor's take from them would soon dominate his royalty stream. 
To suggest that this investor should sell off portions of his most 
successful investments simply because they have come to dominate his 
portfolio is akin to suggesting that the Bulls trade Michael Jordan 
because he has become so important to the team.

     In studying the investments we have made in both subsidiary 
companies and common stocks, you will see that we favor businesses and 
industries unlikely to experience major change.  The reason for that is 
simple:  Making either type of purchase, we are searching for operations 
that we believe are virtually certain to possess enormous competitive 
strength ten or twenty years from now.  A fast-changing industry 
environment may offer the chance for huge wins, but it precludes the 
certainty we seek.

     I should emphasize that, as citizens, Charlie and I welcome change: 
Fresh ideas, new products, innovative processes and the like cause our 
country's standard of living to rise, and that's clearly good.  As 
investors, however, our reaction to a fermenting industry is much like 
our attitude toward space exploration:  We applaud the endeavor but 
prefer to skip the ride.

     Obviously all businesses change to some extent.  Today, See's is 
different in many ways from what it was in 1972 when we bought it:  It 
offers a different assortment of candy, employs different machinery and 
sells through different distribution channels.  But the reasons why 
people today buy boxed chocolates, and why they buy them from us rather 
than from someone else, are virtually unchanged from what they were in 
the 1920s when the See family was building the business.  Moreover, these 
motivations are not likely to change over the next 20 years, or even 50.

     We look for similar predictability in marketable securities.  Take 
Coca-Cola:  The zeal and imagination with which Coke products are sold 
has burgeoned under Roberto Goizueta, who has done an absolutely 
incredible job in creating value for his shareholders.  Aided by Don 
Keough and Doug Ivester, Roberto has rethought and improved every aspect 
of the company.  But the fundamentals of the business - the qualities 
that underlie Coke's competitive dominance and stunning economics - have 
remained constant through the years.

     I was recently studying the 1896 report of Coke (and you think that 
you are behind in your reading!).  At that time Coke, though it was 
already the leading soft drink, had been around for only a decade.  But 
its blueprint for the next 100 years was already drawn.  Reporting sales 
of $148,000 that year, Asa Candler, the company's president, said:  "We 
have not lagged in our efforts to go into all the world teaching that 
Coca-Cola is the article, par excellence, for the health and good feeling 
of all people."  Though "health" may have been a reach, I love the fact 
that Coke still relies on Candler's basic theme today - a century later. 
Candler went on to say, just as Roberto could now, "No article of like 
character has ever so firmly entrenched itself in public favor."  Sales 
of syrup that year, incidentally, were 116,492 gallons versus about 3.2 
billion in 1996.

     I can't resist one more Candler quote:  "Beginning this year about 
March 1st . . . we employed ten traveling salesmen by means of which, 
with systematic correspondence from the office, we covered almost the 
territory of the Union."  That's my kind of sales force.

     Companies such as Coca-Cola and Gillette might well be labeled "The 
Inevitables."  Forecasters may differ a bit in their predictions of 
exactly how much soft drink or shaving-equipment business these companies 
will be doing in ten or twenty years.  Nor is our talk of inevitability 
meant to play down the vital work that these companies must continue to 
carry out, in such areas as manufacturing, distribution, packaging and 
product innovation.  In the end, however, no sensible observer - not even 
these companies' most vigorous competitors, assuming they are assessing 
the matter honestly - questions that Coke and Gillette will dominate 
their fields worldwide for an investment lifetime.  Indeed, their 
dominance will probably strengthen.  Both companies have significantly 
expanded their already huge shares of market during the past ten years, 
and all signs point to their repeating that performance in the next 
decade.

     Obviously many companies in high-tech businesses or embryonic 
industries will grow much faster in percentage terms than will The 
Inevitables.  But I would rather be certain of a good result than hopeful 
of a great one.

     Of course, Charlie and I can identify only a few Inevitables, even 
after a lifetime of looking for them.  Leadership alone provides no 
certainties:  Witness the shocks some years back at General Motors, IBM 
and Sears, all of which had enjoyed long periods of seeming 
invincibility.  Though some industries or lines of business exhibit 
characteristics that endow leaders with virtually insurmountable 
advantages, and that tend to establish Survival of the Fattest as almost 
a natural law, most do not.  Thus, for every Inevitable, there are dozens 
of Impostors, companies now riding high but vulnerable to competitive 
attacks.  Considering what it takes to be an Inevitable, Charlie and I 
recognize that we will never be able to come up with a Nifty Fifty or 
even a Twinkling Twenty.  To the Inevitables in our portfolio, therefore, 
we add a few "Highly Probables."

     You can, of course, pay too much for even the best of businesses.  
The overpayment risk surfaces periodically and, in our opinion, may now 
be quite high for the purchasers of virtually all stocks, The Inevitables 
included.  Investors making purchases in an overheated market need to 
recognize that it may often take an extended period for the value of even 
an outstanding company to catch up with the price they paid.

     A far more serious problem occurs when the management of a great 
company gets sidetracked and neglects its wonderful base business while 
purchasing other businesses that are so-so or worse.  When that happens, 
the suffering of investors is often prolonged.  Unfortunately, that is 
precisely what transpired years ago at both Coke and Gillette.  (Would 
you believe that a few decades back they were growing shrimp at Coke and 
exploring for oil at Gillette?)  Loss of focus is what most worries 
Charlie and me when we contemplate investing in businesses that in 
general look outstanding.  All too often, we've seen value stagnate in 
the presence of hubris or of boredom that caused the attention of 
managers to wander.  That's not going to happen again at Coke and 
Gillette, however - not given their current and prospective managements.

                     * * * * * * * * * * * *

     Let me add a few thoughts about your own investments.  Most 
investors, both institutional and individual, will find that the best way 
to own common stocks is through an index fund that charges minimal fees. 
Those following this path are sure to beat the net results (after fees 
and expenses) delivered by the great majority of investment 
professionals.

     Should you choose, however, to construct your own portfolio, there 
are a few thoughts worth remembering.  Intelligent investing is not 
complex, though that is far from saying that it is easy.  What an 
investor needs is the ability to correctly evaluate selected businesses. 
Note that word "selected":  You don't have to be an expert on every 
company, or even many.  You only have to be able to evaluate companies 
within your circle of competence.  The size of that circle is not very 
important; knowing its boundaries, however, is vital.

     To invest successfully, you need not understand beta, efficient 
markets, modern portfolio theory, option pricing or emerging markets.  
You may, in fact, be better off knowing nothing of these.  That, of 
course, is not the prevailing view at most business schools, whose 
finance curriculum tends to be dominated by such subjects.  In our view, 
though, investment students need only two well-taught courses - How to 
Value a Business, and How to Think About Market Prices.

     Your goal as an investor should simply be to purchase, at a rational 
price, a part interest in an easily-understandable business whose 
earnings are virtually certain to be materially higher five, ten and 
twenty years from now.  Over time, you will find only a few companies 
that meet these standards - so when you see one that qualifies, you 
should buy a meaningful amount of stock.  You must also resist the 
temptation to stray from your guidelines:  If you aren't willing to own a 
stock for ten years, don't even think about owning it for ten minutes.  
Put together a portfolio of companies whose aggregate earnings march 
upward over the years, and so also will the portfolio's market value.

     Though it's seldom recognized, this is the exact approach that has 
produced gains for Berkshire shareholders:  Our look-through earnings 
have grown at a good clip over the years, and our stock price has risen 
correspondingly.  Had those gains in earnings not materialized, there 
would have been little increase in Berkshire's value.

     The greatly enlarged earnings base we now enjoy will inevitably 
cause our future gains to lag those of the past.  We will continue, 
however, to push in the directions we always have.  We will try to build 
earnings by running our present businesses well - a job made easy because 
of the extraordinary talents of our operating managers - and by 
purchasing other businesses, in whole or in part, that are not likely to 
be roiled by change and that possess important competitive advantages.


USAir

     When Richard Branson, the wealthy owner of Virgin Atlantic Airways, 
was asked how to become a millionaire, he had a quick answer:  "There's 
really nothing to it.  Start as a billionaire and then buy an airline."  
Unwilling to accept Branson's proposition on faith, your Chairman decided 
in 1989 to test it by investing $358 million in a 9.25% preferred stock of 
USAir.

     I liked and admired Ed Colodny, the company's then-CEO, and I still 
do.  But my analysis of USAir's business was both superficial and wrong. 
I was so beguiled by the company's long history of profitable 
operations, and by the protection that ownership of a senior security 
seemingly offered me, that I overlooked the crucial point:  USAir's 
revenues would increasingly feel the effects of an unregulated, fiercely-
competitive market whereas its cost structure was a holdover from the 
days when regulation protected profits.  These costs, if left unchecked, 
portended disaster, however reassuring the airline's past record might 
be.  (If history supplied all of the answers, the Forbes 400 would 
consist of librarians.)

     To rationalize its costs, however, USAir needed major improvements 
in its labor contracts - and that's something most airlines have found it 
extraordinarily difficult to get, short of credibly threatening, or 
actually entering, bankruptcy.  USAir was to be no exception.  
Immediately after we purchased our preferred stock, the imbalance between 
the company's costs and revenues began to grow explosively.  In the 1990-
1994 period, USAir lost an aggregate of $2.4 billion, a performance that 
totally wiped out the book equity of its common stock.

     For much of this period, the company paid us our preferred 
dividends, but in 1994 payment was suspended.  A bit later, with the 
situation looking particularly gloomy, we wrote down our investment by 
75%, to $89.5 million.  Thereafter, during much of 1995, I offered to 
sell our shares at 50% of face value.  Fortunately, I was unsuccessful.

     Mixed in with my many mistakes at USAir was one thing I got right:  
Making our investment, we wrote into the preferred contract a somewhat 
unusual provision stipulating that "penalty dividends" - to run five 
percentage points over the prime rate - would be accrued on any 
arrearages.  This meant that when our 9.25% dividend was omitted for two 
years, the unpaid amounts compounded at rates ranging between 13.25% and 
14%.

     Facing this penalty provision, USAir had every incentive to pay 
arrearages just as promptly as it could.  And in the second half of 1996, 
when USAir turned profitable, it indeed began to pay, giving us $47.9 
million.  We owe Stephen Wolf, the company's CEO, a huge thank-you for 
extracting a performance from the airline that permitted this payment.  
Even so, USAir's performance has recently been helped significantly by an 
industry tailwind that may be cyclical in nature.  The company still has 
basic cost problems that must be solved.

     In any event, the prices of USAir's publicly-traded securities tell 
us that our preferred stock is now probably worth its par value of $358 
million, give or take a little.  In addition, we have over the years 
collected an aggregate of $240.5 million in dividends (including $30 
million received in 1997).

     Early in 1996, before any accrued dividends had been paid, I tried 
once more to unload our holdings - this time for about $335 million.  
You're lucky:  I again failed in my attempt to snatch defeat from the 
jaws of victory.

     In another context, a friend once asked me:  "If you're so rich, why 
aren't you smart?"  After reviewing my sorry performance with USAir, you 
may conclude he had a point.


Financings

     We wrote four checks to Salomon Brothers last year and in each case 
were delighted with the work for which we were paying.  I've already 
described one transaction: the FlightSafety purchase in which Salomon was 
the initiating investment banker.  In a second deal, the firm placed a 
small debt offering for our finance subsidiary.

     Additionally, we made two good-sized offerings through Salomon, both 
with interesting aspects.  The first was our sale in May of 517,500 
shares of Class B Common, which generated net proceeds of $565 million.  
As I have told you before, we made this sale in response to the 
threatened creation of unit trusts that would have marketed themselves as 
Berkshire look-alikes.  In the process, they would have used our past, 
and definitely nonrepeatable, record to entice naive small investors and 
would have charged these innocents high fees and commissions.

     I think it would have been quite easy for such trusts to have sold 
many billions of dollars worth of units, and I also believe that early 
marketing successes by these trusts would have led to the formation of 
others.  (In the securities business, whatever can be sold will be sold.) 
The trusts would have meanwhile indiscriminately poured the proceeds of 
their offerings into a supply of Berkshire shares that is fixed and 
limited.  The likely result: a speculative bubble in our stock.  For at 
least a time, the price jump would have been self-validating, in that it 
would have pulled new waves of naive and impressionable investors into 
the trusts and set off still more buying of Berkshire shares.

     Some Berkshire shareholders choosing to exit might have found that 
outcome ideal, since they could have profited at the expense of the 
buyers entering with false hopes.  Continuing shareholders, however, 
would have suffered once reality set in, for at that point Berkshire 
would have been burdened with both hundreds of thousands of unhappy, 
indirect owners (trustholders, that is) and a stained reputation.

     Our issuance of the B shares not only arrested the sale of the 
trusts, but provided a low-cost way for people to invest in Berkshire if 
they still wished to after hearing the warnings we issued.  To blunt the 
enthusiasm that brokers normally have for pushing new issues - because 
that's where the money is - we arranged for our offering to carry a 
commission of only 1.5%, the lowest payoff that we have ever seen in a 
common stock underwriting.  Additionally, we made the amount of the 
offering open-ended, thereby repelling the typical IPO buyer who looks 
for a short-term price spurt arising from a combination of hype and 
scarcity.

     Overall, we tried to make sure that the B stock would be purchased 
only by investors with a long-term perspective.  Those efforts were 
generally successful:  Trading volume in the B shares immediately 
following the offering - a rough index of "flipping" - was far below the 
norm for a new issue.  In the end we added about 40,000 shareholders, 
most of whom we believe both understand what they own and share our time 
horizons.

     Salomon could not have performed better in the handling of this 
unusual transaction.  Its investment bankers understood perfectly what we 
were trying to achieve and tailored every aspect of the offering to meet 
these objectives.  The firm would have made far more money - perhaps ten 
times as much - if our offering had been standard in its make-up.  But 
the investment bankers involved made no attempt to tweak the specifics in 
that direction.  Instead they came up with ideas that were counter to 
Salomon's financial interest but that made it much more certain 
Berkshire's goals would be reached.  Terry Fitzgerald captained this 
effort, and we thank him for the job that he did.

     Given that background, it won't surprise you to learn that we again 
went to Terry when we decided late in the year to sell an issue of 
Berkshire notes that can be exchanged for a portion of the Salomon shares 
that we hold.  In this instance, once again, Salomon did an absolutely 
first-class job, selling $500 million principal amount of five-year notes 
for $447.1 million.  Each $1,000 note is exchangeable into 17.65 shares 
and is callable in three years at accreted value.  Counting the original 
issue discount and a 1% coupon, the securities will provide a yield of 3% 
to maturity for holders who do not exchange them for Salomon stock.  But 
it seems quite likely that the notes will be exchanged before their 
maturity.  If that happens, our interest cost will be about 1.1% for the 
period prior to exchange.

     In recent years, it has been written that Charlie and I are unhappy 
about all investment-banking fees.  That's dead wrong.  We have paid a 
great many fees over the last 30 years - beginning with the check we 
wrote to Charlie Heider upon our purchase of National Indemnity in 1967 - 
and we are delighted to make payments that are commensurate with 
performance.  In the case of the 1996 transactions at Salomon Brothers, 
we more than got our money's worth.


Miscellaneous

     Though it was a close decision, Charlie and I have decided to enter 
the 20th Century.  Accordingly, we are going to put future quarterly and 
annual reports of Berkshire on the Internet, where they can be accessed 
via http://www.berkshirehathaway.com.  We will always "post" these 
reports on a Saturday so that anyone interested will have ample time to 
digest the information before trading begins.  Our publishing schedule 
for the next 12 months is May 17, 1997, August 16, 1997, November 15, 
1997, and March 14, 1998.  We will also post any press releases that we 
issue.

     At some point, we may stop mailing our quarterly reports and simply 
post these on the Internet.  This move would eliminate significant costs. 
Also, we have a large number of "street name" holders and have found 
that the distribution of our quarterlies to them is highly erratic:  Some 
holders receive their mailings weeks later than others.

     The drawback to Internet-only distribution is that many of our 
shareholders lack computers.  Most of these holders, however, could 
easily obtain printouts at work or through friends.  Please let me know 
if you prefer that we continue mailing quarterlies.  We want your input - 
starting with whether you even read these reports - and at a minimum will 
make no change in 1997.  Also, we will definitely keep delivering the 
annual report in its present form in addition to publishing it on the 
Internet.

                     * * * * * * * * * * * *

     About 97.2% of all eligible shares participated in Berkshire's 1996 
shareholder-designated contributions program.  Contributions made were 
$13.3 million, and 3,910 charities were recipients.  A full description 
of the shareholder-designated contributions program appears on pages 48-
49.

     Every year a few shareholders miss out on the program because they 
don't have their shares registered in their own names on the prescribed 
record date or because they fail to get the designation form back to us 
within the 60-day period allowed.  This is distressing to Charlie and me. 
But if replies are received late, we have to reject them because we 
can't make exceptions for some shareholders while refusing to make them 
for others.

     To participate in future programs, you must own Class A shares that 
are registered in the name of the actual owner, not the nominee name of a 
broker, bank or depository.  Shares not so registered on August 31, 1997, 
will be ineligible for the 1997 program.  When you get the form, return 
it promptly so that it does not get put aside or forgotten.


The Annual Meeting

     Our capitalist's version of Woodstock -the Berkshire Annual Meeting-
will be held on Monday, May 5.  Charlie and I thoroughly enjoy this 
event, and we hope that you come.  We will start at 9:30 a.m., break for 
about 15 minutes at noon (food will be available - but at a price, of 
course), and then continue talking to hard-core attendees until at least 
3:30.  Last year we had representatives from all 50 states, as well as 
Australia, Greece, Israel, Portugal, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland, and 
the United Kingdom.  The annual meeting is a time for owners to get their 
business-related questions answered, and therefore Charlie and I will 
stay on stage until we start getting punchy.  (When that happens, I hope 
you notice a change.)

     Last year we had attendance of 5,000 and strained the capacity of 
the Holiday Convention Centre, even though we spread out over three 
rooms.  This year, our new Class B shares have caused a doubling of our 
stockholder count, and we are therefore moving the meeting to the 
Aksarben Coliseum, which holds about 10,000 and also has a huge parking 
lot.  The doors will open for the meeting at 7:00 a.m., and at 8:30 we 
will - upon popular demand - show a new Berkshire movie produced by Marc 
Hamburg, our CFO.  (In this company, no one gets by with doing only a 
single job.)

     Overcoming our legendary repugnance for activities even faintly 
commercial, we will also have an abundant array of Berkshire products for 
sale in the halls outside the meeting room.  Last year we broke all 
records, selling 1,270 pounds of See's candy, 1,143 pairs of Dexter 
shoes, $29,000 of World Books and related publications, and 700 sets of 
knives manufactured by our Quikut subsidiary.  Additionally, many 
shareholders made inquiries about GEICO auto policies.  If you would like 
to investigate possible insurance savings, bring your present policy to 
the meeting.  We estimate that about 40% of our shareholders can save 
money by insuring with us.  (We'd like to say 100%, but the insurance 
business doesn't work that way:  Because insurers differ in their 
underwriting judgments, some of our shareholders are currently paying 
rates that are lower than GEICO's.)

     An attachment to the proxy material enclosed with this report 
explains how you can obtain the card you will need for admission to the 
meeting.  We expect a large crowd, so get both plane and hotel 
reservations promptly.  American Express (800-799-6634) will be happy to 
help you with arrangements.  As usual, we will have buses servicing the 
larger hotels to take you to and from the meeting, and also to take you 
to Nebraska Furniture Mart, Borsheim's and the airport after it is over.

     NFM's main store, located on a 75-acre site about a mile from 
Aksarben, is open from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. on weekdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
on Saturdays, and noon to 6 p.m. on Sundays.  Come by and say hello to 
"Mrs. B" (Rose Blumkin).  She's 103 now and sometimes operates with an 
oxygen mask that is attached to a tank on her cart.  But if you try to 
keep pace with her, it will be you who needs oxygen.  NFM did about $265 
million of business last year - a record for a single-location home 
furnishings operation - and you'll see why once you check out its 
merchandise and prices.

     Borsheim's normally is closed on Sunday but will be open for 
shareholders from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. on May 4th.  Last year on 
"Shareholder Sunday" we broke every Borsheim's record in terms of 
tickets, dollar volume and, no doubt, attendees per square inch.  Because 
we expect a capacity crowd this year as well, all shareholders attending 
on Sunday must bring their admission cards.  Shareholders who prefer a 
somewhat less frenzied experience will get the same special treatment on 
Saturday, when the store is open from 10 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., or on Monday 
between 10 a.m. and 8 p.m.  Come by at any time this year and let Susan 
Jacques, Borsheim's CEO, and her skilled associates perform a painless 
walletectomy on you.

     My favorite steakhouse, Gorat's, was sold out last year on the 
weekend of the annual meeting, even though it added an additional seating 
at 4 p.m. on Sunday.  You can make reservations beginning on April 1st 
(but not earlier) by calling 402-551-3733.  I will be at Gorat's on 
Sunday after Borsheim's, having my usual rare T-bone and double order of 
hashbrowns.  I can also recommend - this is the standard fare when Debbie 
Bosanek, my invaluable assistant, and I go to lunch - the hot roast beef 
sandwich with mashed potatoes and gravy.  Mention Debbie's name and you 
will be given an extra boat of gravy.

     The Omaha Royals and Indianapolis Indians will play baseball on 
Saturday evening, May 3rd, at Rosenblatt Stadium.  Pitching in my normal 
rotation - one throw a year - I will start.

     Though Rosenblatt is normal in appearance, it is anything but:  The 
field sits on a unique geological structure that occasionally emits short 
gravitational waves causing even the most smoothly-delivered pitch to 
sink violently.  I have been the victim of this weird phenomenon several 
times in the past but am hoping for benign conditions this year.  There 
will be lots of opportunities for photos at the ball game, but you will 
need incredibly fast reflexes to snap my fast ball en route to the plate.

     Our proxy statement includes information about obtaining tickets to 
the game.  We will also provide an information packet listing restaurants 
that will be open on Sunday night and describing various things that you 
can do in Omaha on the weekend.  The entire gang at Berkshire looks 
forward to seeing you.



						Warren E. Buffett
February 28, 1997				Chairman of the Board


 

